Captioning sponsored by
NEWSHOUR PRODUCTIONS, LLC
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
TONIGHT: FRENCH
POLICE CONFIRM THE
FRENCH POLICE CONFIRM THE
MASTERMIND BEHIND LAST FRIDAY'S
ATTACKS DID DIE IN A POLICE
ATTACKS DID DIE IN A
POLICE OPERATION.
OPERATION. WE GET THE
LATEST FROM PARIS.
WE GET THE LATEST FROM PARIS.
>> Sreenivasan: I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN IN PARIS.
SREENIVASAN IN PARIS. WE
TALKED TO RESIDENTS IN THE
WE TALKED TO RESIDENTS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE RAID AND
WHAT THIS COULD MEAN FOR THEIR
WHAT THIS COULD MEAN
FOR THEIR COMMUNITY.
COMMUNITY. >> Ifill:
ALSO AHEAD THIS
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD
THIS THURSDAY:
THURSDAY: REFUGEE
POLITICS HERE AT HOME.
REFUGEE POLITICS HERE AT HOME.
THE HOUSE VOTES TO TIGHTEN
SECURITY CHECKS, WHILE SOME
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS SAY THEY DON'T
WANT SYRIANS FLEEING WAR IN
>> Woodruff: AND, TRACKING DOWN
THE ISLAMIC STATE'S MONEY.
HAVE THEIR FINANCES BEEN
HAVE THEIR FINANCES
BEEN UNDERESTIMATED?
UNDERESTIMATED? >> ISIS
ACTUALLY TOOK IN AS MUCH
>> ISIS ACTUALLY TOOK IN AS MUCH
AS HALF A BILLION DOLLARS IN THE
AS HALF A BILLION DOLLARS IN
THE PAST YEAR FROM OIL ALONE.
>> Woodruff: FRENCH OFFICIALS
CLAIMED A MAJOR KILL TODAY IN
PAST YEAR FROM OIL ALONE. >>
Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE ON
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
CLAIMED A MAJOR KILL TODAY IN
THEIR HUNT FOR THOSE BEHIND THE
THEIR HUNT FOR THOSE
BEHIND THE PARIS ATTACKS.
PARIS ATTACKS. THEY
ANNOUNCED THE RINGLEADER OF
THEY ANNOUNCED THE RINGLEADER
OF LAST FRIDAY'S MASSACRE DIED
LAST FRIDAY'S MASSACRE DIED
EARLY YESTERDAY, IN AN ALL-OUT
EARLY YESTERDAY, IN AN
ALL-OUT BATTLE WITH POLICE.
BATTLE WITH POLICE. HARI
SREENIVASAN BEGINS OUR
HARI SREENIVASAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
COVERAGE. >> Sreenivasan:
OFFICIAL WORD OF
>> Sreenivasan: OFFICIAL WORD
OF ABDEHLHAMID ABAAOUD'S DEATH
ABDEHLHAMID ABAAOUD'S DEATH
CAME AS FORENSIC TEAMS POLICE
WORKED AT THE SCENE OF THE RAID
THAT KILLED HIM, IN SAINT DENIS.
AUTHORITIES HAD ALREADY SAID TWO
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND EIGHT
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND
EIGHT OTHERS ARRESTED.
OTHERS ARRESTED. BUT TODAY,
THE PARIS PROSECUTOR
BUT TODAY, THE PARIS PROSECUTOR
CONFIRMED ONE OF THE BODIES WAS
INDEED ABAAOUD'S, BASED ON
ANALYSIS OF HIS FINGERPRINTS.
FRENCH PRIME MINISTER MANUEL
VALLS FORMALLY ANNOUNCED IT TO
VALLS FORMALLY ANNOUNCED IT
TO MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT. >> (
translated): MOST OF YOU
>> (translated): MOST
OF YOU ALREADY KNOW THIS, BUT
THANKS TO
ALREADY KNOW THIS, BUT THANKS TO
WE KNOW THE EXTENT OF THE THREAT
- WAS FOUND AMONGST THOSE WHO
- WAS FOUND AMONGST
THOSE WHO WERE KILLED.
WERE KILLED. I WOULD
LIKE TO PAY TRIBUTE ONCE
I WOULD LIKE TO PAY TRIBUTE ONCE
AGAIN TO THE INCREDIBLE WORK
DONE BY OUR INTELLIGENCE
E.RVICES AND THE POLIC
E.RVICES AND THE POLIC >>
Sreenivasan: THE 27-YEAR-OLD
>> Sreenivasan: THE 27-YEAR-OLD
BELGIAN ABAAOUD WAS THOUGHT TO
BELGIAN ABAAOUD WAS
THOUGHT TO BE IN SYRIA.
BE IN SYRIA. BUT HE'D
BRAGGED IN THE ISLAMIC
BUT HE'D BRAGGED IN THE ISLAMIC
STATE'S ENGLISH MAGAZINE THAT HE
WAS ABLE TO SLIP IN AND OUT OF
WAS ABLE TO SLIP IN AND
OUT OF EUROPE UNDETECTED.
EUROPE UNDETECTED. AND AT
A NEWS CONFERENCE, THE
AND AT A NEWS CONFERENCE, THE
FRENCH INTERIOR MINISTER
COMPLAINED THAT OTHER COUNTRIES
FAILED TO REPORT HIS MOVEMENTS.
>> (translated):
ABDELHAMID
ABDELHAMID ABAAOUD OBVIOUSLY
PLAYED A KEY
ABAAOUD OBVIOUSLY PLAYED A
KEY ROLE IN THESE ATTACKS.
ROLE IN THESE ATTACKS. WE
DID NOT RECEIVE ANY PRIOR
WE DID NOT RECEIVE ANY PRIOR
INFORMATION FROM ANY EUROPEAN
COUNTRY, WHERE HE COULD HAVE
GONE THROUGH BEFORE REACHING
FRANCE THAT WOULD HAVE SUGGESTED
HE HAD ARRIVED IN EUROPE AND WAS
HE HAD ARRIVED IN EUROPE AND
WAS TRAVELLING TO FRANCE.
TRAVELLING TO FRANCE. WASIT
ONLY ON NOVEMBER 16TH, SO
WASIT ONLY ON NOVEMBER 16TH, SO
AFTER THE PARIS ATTACKS, THAT
THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES OF A
COUNTRY BASED OUTSIDE EUROPE
TOLD US THEY HAD EVIDENCE OF HIS
TOLD US THEY HAD EVIDENCE
OF HIS PRESENCE IN GREECE.
PRESENCE IN GREECE.
>> Reporter: FRENCH
INVESTIGATORS BELIEVE ABAAOUD
WAS BEHIND FOUR OF SIX FAILED
PLOTS SINCE THE SPRING.
THEY HAVE YET TO DETAIL HIS
EXACT ROLE DURING THE PARIS
ATTACKS OR HIS LOCATION IN THE
ATTACKS OR HIS LOCATION IN
THE DAYS LEADING UP TO IT.
DAYS LEADING UP TO IT. THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS DEATH
THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS DEATH
IN SAINT DENIS ARE ALSO UNCLEAR,
IN SAINT DENIS ARE ALSO
UNCLEAR, ALTHOUGH OIA BULLETS.
ALTHOUGH OIA BULLETS. HIS
COUSIN, IDENTIFIED AS THE
HIS COUSIN, IDENTIFIED AS THE
OTHER PERSON WHO DIED IN THE
RAID, IS BELIEVED TO HAVE BLOWN
RAID, IS BELIEVED TO
HAVE BLOWN INS O RD
INS O RD >> Sreenivasan:
THERE'S GUNFIRE,
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S GUNFIRE,
THEN POLICE ASK "WHERE IS YOUR
THEN POLICE ASK "WHERE
IS YOUR BOYFRIEND?"
BOYFRIEND?" >>
Sreenivasan: "HE'S NOT MY
>> Sreenivasan: "HE'S NOT MY
BOYFRIEND," SHE SAYS, AND POLICE
BOYFRIEND," SHE SAYS, AND
POLICE AGAIN ASK WHERE HE IS.
AGAIN ASK WHERE HE IS. >>
Sreenivasan: THE WOMAN
>> Sreenivasan: THE WOMAN
REPEATS: "HE'S NOT MY
BOYFRIEND," FOLLOWED BY MORE
SHOTS, AND AN EXPLOSION,
POSSIBLY HER SUICIDE VEST
POSSIBLY HER SUICIDE
VEST DETONATING.
DETONATING. A DAY AFTER
THE RAID THAT KILLED
A DAY AFTER THE RAID THAT KILLED
THE RINGLEADER OF THE PARIS
ATTACKS, THE PEOPLE HERE IN ST.
ATTACKS, THE PEOPLE HERE IN
ST. DENIS -- A WORKING CLASS
DENIS -- A WORKING CLASS
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT'S TRNG TYIO
PULL ITSELF BACK UP -- ARE
CONCERNED THAT THIS EVENT WILL
CONCERNED THAT THIS EVENT
WILL UNDERMINE THOSE EFFORTS.
UNDERMINE THOSE EFFORTS.
MONIQUE JEFFROY WAS BORN IN
SAINT DENIS, AND HAS LIVED HERE
SAINT DENIS, AND HAS
LIVED HERE ALL HER LIFE.
ALL HER LIFE. >> (
translated): IT GIVES
THE
>> (translated): IT
GIVES THE IMPRESSION THAT THIS
IS A
IMPRESSION THAT THIS
IS A TERRIBLE TOWN.
TERRIBLE TOWN. WITH THE
POLICE EVERYWHERE,
WITH THE POLICE EVERYWHERE,
EVERYWHERE, EVERYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE, EVERYWHERE. ITS
FAR FROM THE TRUTH, THAT'S
ITS FAR FROM THE TRUTH, THAT'S
NOT WHAT THIS AREA IS LIKE.
NOT WHAT THIS AREA IS LIKE. ON
A CULTURAL LEVEL IT IS A VERY
ON A CULTURAL LEVEL IT IS A VERY
INTERESTING TOWN, THERE ARE A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE MOTIVATED
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
MOTIVATED TO HELP IMPROVE IT.
TO HELP IMPROVE IT. >>
Sreenasaniv: INSIDE THE AREA
>> Sreenasaniv: INSIDE THE AREA
CORDONED OFF BY POLICE ARE
DOZENS OF SHUTTERED SHOPS,
INUDINCLG ONE THAT EMPLOYS JEAN
INUDINCLG ONE THAT EMPLOYS
JEAN FRANCOIS DE FOURNIER.
FRANCOIS DE FOURNIER. >> (
translated): IF I HAVE
TO
>> (translated): IF I
HAVE TO BUY SOMETHING, NEVER I'M
COMING
BUY SOMETHING, NEVER I'M
COMING TO ST. DENIS AGAIN
TO ST. DENIS AGAIN >>
Sreenivasan: WHY NOT?
>> Sreenivasan: WHY NOT?
>> FOR THE SECURITY.
>> FOR THE SECURITY. EVERYBODY
WILL BE AFRAID OF ST.
EVERYBODY WILL BE
AFRAID OF ST. DENIS.
DENIS. LIKE THEY WILL
BE AFRAID OF THE
LIKE THEY WILL BE
AFRAID OF THE BATACLAN.
BATACLAN. >> Sreenivasan:
LOCALS LIKE DIES
>> Sreenivasan: LOCALS LIKE
DIES GRANIS, ARE HAPPY WITH THE
GRANIS, ARE HAPPY WITH THE
INVESTIGATION INTO THIS ACT
BUT ALSO WITH PARLIAMENT'S
EXTENSION OF THE STATE OF
EXTENSION OF THE STATE
OF EMERGENCY TODAY.
EMERGENCY TODAY. >> (
translated): I AGREE
WITH
>> (translated): I
AGREE WITH EXTENDING THE STATE
OF EMERGENCY
EXTENDING THE STATE OF EMERGENCY
BECAUSE IT WILL ALLOW THE POLICE
AND EVERYONE TO CARRY OUT
INQUIRIES MORE SERIOUSLY WITHOUT
WAITING FOR THE BUREAUCRACY
WHICH WILL DELAY IT.
IT HELPS OPEN DOORS.
IT HELPS OPEN DOORS. I
THINK IT'S A GOOD THING.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD THING. >>
Sreenivasan: THAT VOTE TODAY
>> Sreenivasan: THAT VOTE TODAY
IN THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WAS
OVERWHELMING -- 551-TO-6 -- TO
EXTEND THE EMERGENCY FOR THREE
EXTEND THE EMERGENCY
FOR THREE MONTHS.
MONTHS. IT FOLLOWED A
FRESH WARNING FROM
IT FOLLOWED A FRESH WARNING FROM
PRIME MINISTER VALLS ABOUT WHAT
ISLAMIST EXTREMISTS MIGHT TRY
ISLAMIST EXTREMISTS
MIGHT TRY NEXT.
NEXT. >> (translated
): THE WAY OF
>> (translated): THE
WAY OF CARRYING AN ATTACK, OF
KILLING,
CARRYING AN ATTACK, OF KILLING,
IS CONSTANTLY EVOLVING.
IS CONSTANTLY EVOLVING. AND
I SAY THIS, OF COURSE, WITH
AND I SAY THIS, OF COURSE, WITH
ALL THE NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS
BUT WE KNOW IT AND WE HAVE IT IN
MIND: THERE IS ALSO THE RISK OF
CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, IN
BELGIUM, THERE WERE NINE MORE
RAIDS TODAY IN AND AROUND THE
POOR BRUSSELS NEIGHBORHOOD OF
POOR BRUSSELS NEIGHBORHOOD
OF MOLENBEEK.
MOLENBEEK. AUTHORITIES
SAID NINE PEOPLE
AUTHORITIES SAID NINE PEOPLE
WERE DETAINED IN ALL.
WERE DETAINED IN ALL. SEVEN
HAD TIES TO BILAL HAFDI,
SEVEN HAD TIES TO BILAL HAFDI,
ONE OF THE SUICIDE BOMBERS WHO
DIED IN THE PARIS ATTACKS.
MOLENBEEK WAS ALSO THE HOME OF
SALAH ABDESLAM, ANOTHER SUSPECT
IN THE ATTACKS WHO'S STILL ON
IN THE ATTACKS WHO'S
STILL ON THE RUN.
THE RUN. BELGIAN
POLICE HAVE NOW ISSUED
BELGIAN POLICE HAVE NOW
ISSUED THIS ALERT ABOUT HIM.
THIS ALERT ABOUT HIM. >>
SALAH ABDESLAM, ONE OF THE
>> SALAH ABDESLAM, ONE OF THE
MAIN SUSPECTS IN THE ATTACKS, IS
MAIN SUSPECTS IN THE ATTACKS,
IS HE IS POSSIBLY STILL IN OUR
HE IS POSSIBLY STILL
IN OUR COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. THE MAN IS
26, SLIM AND ABOUT
THE MAN IS 26, SLIM AND ABOUT
FIVE FEET, NINE INCHES TALL.
HE IS EXTREMELY DANGEROUS AND
HE IS EXTREMELY DANGEROUS
AND LIKELY ARMED TOO.
LIKELY ARMED TOO. SO,
IN CASE YOU SEE HIM,
SO, IN CASE YOU SEE HIM,
CERTAINLY DO NOT TAKE ACTION
YOURSELF BUT WARN POLICE
YOURSELF BUT WARN
POLICE IMMEDIATELY.
IMMEDIATELY. >>
Sreenivasan: IN ADDITION,
>> Sreenivasan: IN ADDITION,
BELGIUM'S PRIME MINISTER CHARLES
MICHEL ANNOUNCED A SERIES OF NEW
MEASURES, INCLUDING $427 MILLION
TO EXPAND THE ANTI-TERROR FIGHT.
>> (translated): WE
WANT TO
WANT TO ACT ALONG FOUR MAJOR
LINES.
ACT ALONG FOUR MAJOR LINES.
FIRST, TO ERADICATE MESSAGES OF
FIRST, TO ERADICATE MESSAGES
OF HATE AND CALLS TO VIOLENCE.
HATE AND CALLS TO VIOLENCE.
SECOND, TO CONCENTRATE EFFORTS
AND OUR MEANS ON INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAVE BEEN FLAGGED AS POTENTIALLY
HAVE BEEN FLAGGED AS
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS.
DANGEROUS. THIRD,
TO STRENGTHEN THE
THIRD, TO STRENGTHEN
THE SECURITY MEASURES.
SECURITY MEASURES. AND
FINALLY, TO ACT ON AN
AND FINALLY, TO ACT ON
AN INTERNATIONAL LEVEL.
INTERNATIONAL LEVEL. >>
Sreenivasan: MICHEL ALSO SAID
>> Sreenivasan: MICHEL ALSO SAID
HE WANTS TO AMEND THE BELGIAN
CONSTITUTION, TO LENGTHEN THE
TIME TERROR SUSPECTS CAN BE
TIME TERROR SUSPECTS CAN
BE HELD WITHOUT A CHARGE.
HELD WITHOUT A CHARGE. IN
ITALY, AUTHORITIES ANNOUNCED
IN ITALY, AUTHORITIES ANNOUNCED
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR FIVE PEOPLE
AFTER A U.S. WARNING THAT
AFTER A U.S. WARNING THAT ST.
PETER'S BASILICA IN ROME
ST. PETER'S BASILICA IN ROME
AMONG OTHER SITES MIGHT BE TO
PENSIONLE TARGETS IN A NEW PLOT.
ITALIAN AUTHORITIES ALSO MADE A
ITALIAN AUTHORITIES ALSO MADE
A COUPLE OF ARRESTS TODAY.
COUPLE OF ARRESTS TODAY. A
COUPLE OF MEN WERE TRYING TO
A COUPLE OF MEN WERE TRYING TO
GET TO MALTA ON FAKE PASSPORTS.
GET TO MALTA ON
FAKE PASSPORTS. I
I FIGHTERS WHO HAVE LEFT EUROPE
FIGHTERS WHO HAVE LEFT EUROPE
AND GONE TO IRAQ OR SYRIA
PERHAPS TO BE TRAINED.
PERHAPS TO BE TRAINED. >>
Woodruff: HARI, TELL US,
>> Woodruff: HARI, TELL US,
WHAT ARE THE FRENCH THEMSELVES
DOING TO STEP UP THEIR OWN
DOING TO STEP UP THEIR
OWN EFFORTS WHETHER IT'S
EFFORTS WHETHER IT'S
INTELLIGENCE OR WHATEVER ELSE?
>> Sreenivasan: WELL, THE
>> Sreenivasan: WELL, THE PRIME
MINISTER TODAY CALLED FORO
PRIME MINISTER TODAY CALLED FORO
A DEEPER INVESTIGATION INTO
EXACTLY HOW IT IS THAT
ABDELHAMID ABAAOUD SLIPPED IN
AND OUT AND BRAGGED AT IT IN THE
MAGAZINE AND GET INTO EUROPE SO
MAGAZINE AND GET INTO
EUROPE SO EASILY.
EASILY. THE DEFENSE
COUNCIL SAYS THEY'RE
THE DEFENSE COUNCIL SAYS THEY'RE
FOR INTENSING MILITARIES ACTIONS
AGAINST I.S.I.S. IN AND OUTSIDE
AGAINST I.S.I.S. IN
AND OUTSIDE EUROPE.
EUROPE. >> Woodruff:
DO YOU GET THE
>> Woodruff: DO YOU GET THE
SENSE OFFICIALS CONTINUE TO FEEL
UNDER A LOT OF PRESSURE OVER
UNDER A LOT OF PRESSURE
OVER THERE IN FRANCE?
THERE IN FRANCE? >>
Sreenivasan: YES, I THINK
>> Sreenivasan: YES, I THINK
SO BECAUSE RIGHT NOW IS THE
LOWER HOUSE OF PARLIAMENTICSAM
TOMORROW WILL BE ANOTHER VOTE.
THERE IS A SENSE OF URGENCY
THERE IS A SENSE
OF URGENCY HERE.
HERE. PEOPLE ARE
EXPECTINGHE THEIR
PEOPLE ARE EXPECTINGHE THEIR
POLITICIANS TO BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE ESPECIALLY
CONSIDERING THE GRAVITY OF THIS
CONSIDERING THE GRAVITY
OF THIS ATTACK.
ATTACK. >> Woodruff:
HARI SREENIVASANAN
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASANAN
JOINING US ONCE AGAIN FROM
JOINING US ONCE AGAIN
FROM PARIS, THANKS.
PARIS, THANKS. AND WE'LL
TURN TO THE GROWING
AND WE'LL TURN TO THE GROWING
THREAT OF ISLAMIC STATE ATTACKS
THREAT OF ISLAMIC STATE
ATTACKS AROUND THE WORLD.
AROUND THE WORLD. IRVETION
ATTACKS IN EUROPE TO
IRVETION ATTACKS IN EUROPE TO
>> Ifill: IN THE DAY'S OTHER
NEWS, THE REFUGEE CRISIS IN
EUROPE TOOK A SHARP TURN, AS
FOUR COUNTRIES IMPOSED NEW RULES
FOUR COUNTRIES IMPOSED NEW
RULES IN THE WAKE OF THE PARIS
IN THE WAKE OF THE
PARIS ATTACKS.
ATTACKS. SERBIA,
MACEDONIA, CROATIA AND
SERBIA, MACEDONIA, CROATIA AND
SLOVENIA ANNOUNCED THEY WILL
TURN BACK ECONOMIC MIGRANTS AND
ALLOW ONLY WAR REFUGEES TO ENTER
ALLOW ONLY WAR REFUGEES
TO ENTER THEIR TERRITORY.
THEIR TERRITORY. THAT
QUICKLY CREATED A LOGJAM
THAT QUICKLY CREATED A LOGJAM
ALONG SEVERAL BORDERS.
ALONG SEVERAL BORDERS. A U.N.
WORKER IN MACEDONIA SAID
A U.N. WORKER IN MACEDONIA SAID
ABOUT 1,500 PEOPLE WERE BEING
HELD BACK AT THE COUNTRY'S
FRONTIER WITH GREECE.
FRONTIER WITH GREECE. >>
THE GOVERNMENT AS FAR AS I
>> THE GOVERNMENT AS FAR AS I
KNOW HAS BEEN COMMITTED HERE
FROM THE BORDER OFFICIALS IS
THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED
TO LET PASS ONLY SYRIANS,
AFGHANS AND IRAQI REFUGEES.
FARTHER WEST, AUSTRIAN
CHANCELLOR WERNER FAYMANN CALLED
FOR STRICTER BORDER CHECKS.YMER
BUT IN TURKEY, PRESIDENT RECEP
TAYYIP ERDOGAN URGED PEOPLE NOT
TAYYIP ERDOGAN URGED PEOPLE
NOT TO HARDEN THEIR ATTITUDES
TO HARDEN THEIR ATTITUDES
AGAINST MUSLIM REFUGEES.
AGAINST MUSLIM REFUGEES. >>
Woodruff: THE FALLOUT FROM
>> Woodruff: THE FALLOUT FROM
THE PARIS ATTACKS ALSO DOMINATED
THE U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
THE U.S. PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN TODAY.
TODAY. DEMOCRATIC
FRONT-RUNNER HILLARY
DEMOCRATIC FRONT-RUNNER HILLARY
CLINTON SAID THE U.S. MUST LEAD
THE FIGHT AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS IN IRAQ AND SYRIA,
WITH AN EXPANDED AIR CAMPAIGN.
BUT, SPEAKING IN NEW YORK, SHE
SAID LOCAL FORCES IN THE REGION,
NOT U.S. TROOPS, SHOULD DO THE
NOT U.S. TROOPS, SHOULD DO
THE BULK OF THE FIGHTING.
BULK OF THE FIGHTING.
>> INJECTING SOME LARGE
CONTINGENT OF AMERICAN FORCES
COMPLICATES THAT, IN MY OPINION.
RIGHT NOW, WE NEED TO KEEP THE
PRESSURE ON THE PEOPLE ON THE
GROUND, AND GET THEM TO CHANGE
THEIR PRIORITIES AND WORK
THEIR PRIORITIES
AND WORK TOGETHER.
TOGETHER. >> Woodruff:
CLINTON'S CHIEF
>> Woodruff: CLINTON'S CHIEF
RIVAL, VERMONT SENATOR BERNIE
SANDERS, ECHOED THAT SENTIMENT
AT AN EVENT IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
>> THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT ISIS
MUST BE DESTROYED, BUT IT CANNOT
BE DEFEATED BY THE UNITED STATES
BE DEFEATED BY THE
UNITED STATES ALONE.
ALONE. A NEW AND
EFFECTIVE COALITIONIV
A NEW AND EFFECTIVE COALITIONIV
MUST BE FORMED WITH THE MUSLIM
NATIONS LEADING THE EFFORT ON
THE GROUND, WHILE THE UNITED
STATES AND OTHER MAJOR FORCESES
PROVIDE THE SUPPORT THEY NEED.
>> Ifill: ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE, JEB BUSH CALLED AGAIN FOR
A MORE AGGRESSIVE STANCE AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE, INCLUDING AN
UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF GROUND
UNDETERMINED NUMBER
OF GROUND TROOPS.
TROOPS. HE SPOKE TO
REPORTERS IN NEW
HE SPOKE TO REPORTERS IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE, AFTER FILI OFFICIAL
PAPERS TO APPEAR ON THE PRIMARY
PAPERS TO APPEAR ON
THE PRIMARY BALLOT.O
BALLOT.O >> WE CAN'T
DO THIS LEADING FROG
>> WE CAN'T DO THIS LEADING FROG
BEHIND AS THE PRESIDENT HAS
BEHIND AS THE PRESIDENT
HAS SUGGESTED.
SUGGESTED. WE CAN'T
DO IT AS HILLARY
WE CAN'T DO IT AS HILLARY
CLINTON HAS SUGGESTED, UP TILL
TODAY, AT LEAST, THAT IT ISN'T
TODAY, AT LEAST, THAT
IT ISN'T OUR FIGHT.
OUR FIGHT. IT IS OUR FIGHT.
IT IS OUR FIGHT. IT'S
A FIGHT FOR WESTERN
IT'S A FIGHT FOR
WESTERN CIVILIZATION.
CIVILIZATION. >> Ifill:
THE CANDIDATES HAVE
>> Ifill: THE CANDIDATES HAVE
ALSO BEEN WEIGHING IN ON
RESETTLING SYRIAN REFUGEES IN
RESETTLING SYRIAN
REFUGEES IN THE U.S.
THE U.S. TODAY,
REPUBLICAN BEN CARSON
TODAY, REPUBLICAN BEN CARSON
SAID IT'S VITAL TO KEEP
OUT POTENTIAL TERRORISTS.
POTENTIAL TERRORISTS. HE
TOLD AN AUDIENCE IN ALABAMA:
HE TOLD AN AUDIENCE IN ALABAMA:
"IF THERE'S A RABID DOG RUNNING
AROUND IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD,
YOU'RE PROBABLY NOT GOING TO
ASSUME SOMETHING GOOD ABOUT THAT
ASSUME SOMETHING GOOD
ABOUT THAT DOG."
DOG." WE'LL EXPLORE
THE CONTINUING
WE'LL EXPLORE THE CONTINUING
POLITICS OF THE REFUGEE DEBATE,E
POLITICS OF THE REFUGEE
DEBATE,E LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
LATER IN THE PROGRAM. >>
Woodruff: VIOLENCE BETWEEN
>> Woodruff: VIOLENCE BETWEEN
ISRAELIS AND PALESTINIANS
CLAIMED FIVE MORE LIVES TODAY.
ONE WAS AN 18-YEAR-OLD AMERICAN
TOURIST WHO DIED WHEN A
PALESTINIAN IN A CAR OPENED FIRE
PALESTINIAN IN A CAR OPENED
FIRE IN THE WEST BANK.
IN THE WEST BANK. TWO
ISRAELIS WERE KILLED THERE
TWO ISRAELIS WERE
KILLED THERE AS WELL.
AS WELL. THE GUNMAN'S
FATE WAS UNCLEAR.
THE GUNMAN'S FATE WAS UNCLEAR.
EARLIER, IN TEL AVIV, A
PALESTINIAN ATTACKED A PRAYER
GATHERING IN AN OFFICE BUILDING.
HE STABBED TWO ISRAELIS TO
DEATH, BEFORE BEING CAPTURED.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
INSISTING THAT THE CIVIL WAR IN
SYRIA CANNOT END WHILE PRESIDENH
BASHAR AL-ASSAD REMAINS IN
BASHAR AL-ASSAD
REMAINS IN POWER.
POWER. HE SPOKE AS
HE MET TODAY WITH
HE SPOKE AS HE MET TODAY WITH
CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER JUSTIN
TRUDEAU AT THE ASIA-PACIFIC
SUMMIT IN MANILA.
SUMMIT IN MANILA. MR.
OBAMA SAID IT IS
MR. OBAMA SAID IT IS
"UNIMAGINABLE" THAT ASSAD WOULD
"UNIMAGINABLE" THAT
ASSAD WOULD STAY.
STAY. >> OVERWHELMING
MAJORITY OF
>> OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
PEOPLE IN SYRI OA CONSIDER HIM N
LEGITIMACY AND IF, IN FACT, HE
LEGITIMACY AND IF, IN FACT,
HE IS STILL IN POWER, THEN
IS STILL IN POWER, THEN
REGARDLESS OF WHAT OUTSIDE
POWERS DO, THERE IS STILL GOING
TO BE LARGE PORTIONS OF THE
POPULATION THAT ARE FIGHTING.
>> Ifill: SEPARATELY, THEE
PRESIDENT SAID THE ATTACKS IN
PARIS WILL NOT CHANGE HIS MIND
ABOUT CLOSING THE PRISON FORE
TERROR DETAINEES AT GUANTANAMOAI
TERROR DETAINEES AT
GUANTANAMOAI BAY.
BAY. >> Woodruff:
THE FORMER SUBWAY
>> Woodruff: THE FORMER SUBWAY
SANDWICH SPOKESMAN JARED FOGLE
IS HEADED TO PRISON FOR MORE
THAN 15 YEARS, AFTER PLEADING
GUILTY TO CHILD PORNOGRAPHY AND
GUILTY TO CHILD PORNOGRAPHY
AND UNDERAGE SEX.
UNDERAGE SEX. A FEDERAL
JUDGE IN INDIANAPOLIS
A FEDERAL JUDGE IN INDIANAPOLIS
HANDED DOWN THE SENTENCE TODAY.
SHE ALSO IMPOSED A FINE OF
SHE ALSO IMPOSED A
FINE OF $175,000.
$175,000. FOGLE
APOLOGIZED IN COURT, AND
FOGLE APOLOGIZED IN COURT, AND
SAID HE REGRETS LETTING SO MANY
SAID HE REGRETS LETTING
SO MANY PEOPLE DOWN.
PEOPLE DOWN. >> Ifill:
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
>> Ifill: FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN DECADES, MORE MEXICANS ARE
DECADES, MORE MEXICANS ARE
LEAVING THE UNITED STATES THANTH
LEAVING THE UNITED
STATES THANTH ENTERING.
ENTERING. THE PEW
RESEARCH CENTER REPORTED
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER
REPORTED THE NUMBERS TODAY.
THE NUMBERS TODAY. IT SAID
A LITTLE OVER A MILLION
IT SAID A LITTLE OVER A MILLION
PEOPLE RETURNED TO MEXICO IN THE
PEOPLE RETURNED TO MEXICO
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
LAST FIVE YEARS. AT THE
SAME TIME, 870,000 MOVED
AT THE SAME TIME, 870,000 MOVED
NORTH INTO THE U.S., REVERSING A
NORTH INTO THE U.S.,
REVERSING A LONG-TIME TREND.
LONG-TIME TREND. PEW
ATTRIBUTES THE SHIFT TO A
PEW ATTRIBUTES THE SHIFT TO
A SLUGGISH U.S. ECONOMY AND
SLUGGISH U.S. ECONOMY AND
STRICTER BORDER ENFORCEMENT.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET HAD
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET
HAD WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL AN
WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL
AN UNINSPIRED DAY.
UNINSPIRED DAY. THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST FOUR POINTS TO CLOSE AT
LOST FOUR POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 17,732.
17,732. THE NASDAQ
FELL A POINT, AND THE
THE NASDAQ FELL A POINT, AND
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED TWO.
S&P 500 SLIPPED TWO. >>
Ifill: AND, GENETICALLY
>> Ifill: AND, GENETICALLY
MODIFIED SALMON WILL NOW BE FOR
SALE ON GROCERY SHELVES AROUND
SALE ON GROCERY SHELVES
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
THE COUNTRY. THE FOOD
AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
APPROVED IT TODAY, AS THE FIRST
ENGINEERED ANIMAL ALLOWED FOR
HUMAN CONSUMPTION IN THE U.S.
THE FISH GROWS TWICE AS FAST AS
NORMAL SALMON, REACHING MARKET
NORMAL SALMON, REACHING
MARKET SIZE MORE QUICKLY.
SIZE MORE QUICKLY. >>
Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
>> Woodruff: STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE NEWSHOUR: ISIS PURSUES
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
ISIS PURSUES CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
HOW THE TERRORIST GROUP MAKES
HOW THE TERRORIST GROUP
MAKES ITS MONEY.
ITS MONEY. THE U.S.
HOUSE VOTES TO TIGHTEN
THE U.S. HOUSE VOTES TO TIGHTEN
SECURITY CHECKS ON REFUGEES.
SECURITY CHECKS ON
REFUGEES. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN NOW TO THE
PARIS ATTACKS, AND ADULHAMID
ABAAOUD, WHO MANAGED TO RETURN
TO EUROPE UNDETECTED AFTER
JOINING THE ISLAMIC STATE IN
JOINING THE ISLAMIC
STATE IN SYRIA.
SYRIA. TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND MORE ABOUT
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND MORE ABOUT
HIM AND OTHERS LIKE HIM WHO HAV
BECOME RADICALIZED AND POSE AOS
THREAT, I'M JOINED BY "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" REPORTER STACEY
MEICHTRY, AND LORENZO VIDINO,
DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM ON
EXTERMISM AT GEORGE WASHINGTON
EXTERMISM AT GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.TE
UNIVERSITY.TE WELCOME TO
YOU BOTH, GENTLEMEN.N
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH, GENTLEMEN.N
STACEY MEICHTRY, TELL US
EVERYTHING WE KNOW ABOUT
ABDELHAMID ABAAOUD.
ABDELHAMID ABAAOUD. >> WELL,
HE COMES FROM A SUBURB
>> WELL, HE COMES FROM A SUBURB
OF BRUSSELS WHERE HIS FAMILY
WERE BUSINESS OWNERS, THEY HAD A
HOUSE AND, AS FAR AS THEY WERE
CONCERNED, THEY WERE A NORMAL
CONCERNED, THEY WERE
A NORMAL FAMILY.
FAMILY. AS HE GOT
OLDER, HE STARTED A
AS HE GOT OLDER, HE STARTED A
CAREER OF PETTY CRIME, GETTING
CONVICTED FOR ASSAULT, BREAKING
AND ENTERING, AND HE ENDED UP
SERVING PRISON TERMS IN THEE
SERVING PRISON TERMS IN
THEE DIFFERENT PRISONS.
DIFFERENT PRISONS. AT
SOME POINT, HE DECIDED TO
AT SOME POINT, HE DECIDED TO
TRAVEL TO SYRIA, AND IT WAS
THERE WHERE HE APPARENTLY ROSE
TO SIGNIFICANTLY A HIGH RANK FOR
A FOREIGN FIGHTER IN ISLAMIC
A FOREIGN FIGHTER IN
ISLAMIC STATE TERRITORY.
STATE TERRITORY. HE WAS
KNOWN AS AN AMIR OF WAR,
HE WAS KNOWN AS AN AMIR OF WAR,
WHICH IS A MILITARY COMMANDER.
>> Ifill:ND SO HE WAS PART OF
HIS PARENTS' RETAIL BUSINESS IN
BELGIUM UNTIL 2013 AND SOMETIMEM
BETWEEN NOW AND THEN HE NOT ONLY
GOT INVOLVED BUT BECAME A LEADER
GOT INVOLVED BUT BECAME
A LEADER IN THIS.
IN THIS. HOW SIGNIFICANT
IS IT THAT HE
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT THAT
HE WAS TAKEN DOWN TODAY?
WAS TAKEN DOWN TODAY? >> IT'S
VERY SIGNIFICANT, FIRSTT
>> IT'S VERY SIGNIFICANT, FIRSTT
OF ALL BECAUSE IT'S DEPRIVESS
I.S.I.S. OF A SIGNIFICANT
I.S.I.S. OF A
SIGNIFICANT COMMANDER.
COMMANDER. SECOND OF
ALL, THIS IS SOMEBODY
SECOND OF ALL, THIS IS SOMEBODY
WHO MANAGED TO CONSTRUCT A BROAD
NETWORK OF ASSOCIATES CAPABLE OF
NETWORK OF ASSOCIATES CAPABLE
OF CARRYING OUT ATTACKS.
CARRYING OUT ATTACKS. YOU
KNOW, THE INTERIOR MINISTER
YOU KNOW, THE INTERIOR MINISTER
OF FRANCE TODAY SAID THAT HE WAS
INVOLVED IN UP TO FIVE DIFFERENT
PLOTS AGAINST EUROPEAN SOIL, AND
WHEN THEY RAIDED THE APARTMENT,
HIS HIDEOUT, POLICE CAME UP
AGAINST SOME SIGNIFICANT FIRE
AGAINST SOME SIGNIFICANT
FIRE POWER.
POWER. IT WAS A
PITCH BATTLE THAT
IT WAS A PITCH BATTLE
THAT LASTED HOURS.
LASTED HOURS. THIS WAS
SOMEONE WHO WAS CAPABLE
THIS WAS SOMEONE WHO WAS CAPABLE
OF ASSEMBLING A SIGNIFICANT
OF ASSEMBLING A
SIGNIFICANT ARSENAL.
ARSENAL. >> Ifill:
HOW UNUSUAL IS THIS
>> Ifill: HOW UNUSUAL IS THIS
WHAT WE'RE HAVING DESCRIBED
WHAT WE'RE HAVING
DESCRIBED HERE?
HERE? >> UNFORTUNATELY,
NOT UNUSUAL.L.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, NOT UNUSUAL.L.
THERE ARE OVER 5,000 EUROPEANSPE
WHO HAVE GONE TO SYRIA AND
JOINED I.S.I.S. AND OTHER
JOINED I.S.I.S. AND
OTHER JIHADIST GROUPS.
JIHADIST GROUPS. A FEW OF
G THEM HAVE GONE BACK.
A FEW OF G THEM HAVE GONE BACK.
NOT ALL THOSE WHO GO BACK ARE
INTENT ON CARRYING OUT ATTACKS.
ABAAOUD WAS AN EXCEPTION IN THAT
HE WAS GOING BACK AND FORTH
BETWEEN SYRIA AND EUROPE
DEVELOPING OPERATIVES AND
MOBILIZING TO CARRY OUT ATTACKS.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THE NUMBERSER
ARE VERY HIGH AND THERE ARE A
LOT OF PROBLEMS FOR EUROPEAN
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES TO MONITOR
SUCH A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE.E.
>> Ifill: WELL, THAT'S
INTERESTING TO ME BECAUSE PEOPLE
KNEW ABOUT HIM, THEY KNEW A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT HIS MOVEMENTS.
WHY WASN'T HE TRACKED OR WAS HE
WHY WASN'T HE TRACKED OR
WAS HE BEING TRACKED?
BEING TRACKED? >> WELL,
WE'VE GOT TO FIND OUT
>> WELL, WE'VE GOT TO FIND OUT
THE DETAILS OF EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED AND CLEARLY THAT WAS A
FAILURE OF INTELLIGENCE ON THE
FRENCH PART BUT, AGAIN, I THINK
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF THINGS TO
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF THINGS
TO BE MENTIONED HERE.
BE MENTIONED HERE. FIRST
OF ALL, AS I SAID, THE
FIRST OF ALL, AS I SAID, THE
NUMBER, IT'S SO DO IT TRACK SUCH
NUMBER, IT'S SO DO IT TRACK
SUCH A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE.
A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE. THE
FRENCH ALONE HAVE OVER 1500
THE FRENCH ALONE HAVE OVER 1500
PEOPLE WHO HAVE GONE TO SYRIA TO
PEOPLE WHO HAVE GONE TO SYRIA
TO FIGHT AND THEY HAVE 11,000
FIGHT AND THEY HAVE 11,000
INDIVIDUALS THEY CONSIDER
RADICALS THAT THEY HAVE TO
RADICALS THAT THEY
HAVE TO MONITOR.
MONITOR. OBVIOUSLY
THETO MANPOWER REQUIRD
OBVIOUSLY THETO MANPOWER REQUIRD
FOR THAT IS ENORMOUS.OU
FOR THAT IS ENORMOUS.OU ADD
TO THAT THE FACT PEOPLE CAN
ADD TO THAT THE FACT PEOPLE CAN
CROSS BORDERS IN EUROPE WITHOUTT
HAVING TO GO THROUGH ANY BARRIER
OR HAVING TO SHOW A PASSPORT.
SO THERE IS FREEDOM OF
CIRCULATION, BUT INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES ARE STILL DIVIDE BID
COUNTRIES, SO HE COULD HAVE GONE
COUNTRIES, SO HE COULD HAVE
GONE IN FROM A CERTAIN EUROPEAN
IN FROM A CERTAIN EUROPEAN
COUNTRY AND E THE FRENCH WOULDD
HAVE NOT BEEN NOTIFIED BY THEM.
SO THERE IS THIS DIVISION
AMANAGER DIFFERENT EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES AND PARIS EXPLOITED.
>> Ifill: STACEY MEICHTRY,
WHAT DO THESE ATTACKS AND THIS
INVESTIGATION TELL US ABOUT HOW
THESE KINDS OF TERROR NETWORKS
THESE KINDS OF TERROR
NETWORKS WORK?
WORK? >> WELL, I THINK WHAT'S
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT'S
REMARKABLE ABOUT THIS CASE IS
THAT PREVIOUSLY WE HAD ASSUMED
THAT ISLAMIC STATE IN PARTICULAo
WAS ALMOST A LOCAL MILITIA.
THEIR FOCUS WAS TO BUILD A
CALIPHATE IN SYRIA AND IRAQ IN
CALIPHATE IN SYRIA AND
IRAQ IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
THE MIDDLE EAST. WHAT
THIS PARTICULAR ATTACK
WHAT THIS PARTICULAR ATTACK
DEMONSTRATES IS THEY HAVE REALLY
EXPANDED AND DEVELOPED THE
CAPABILITY TO LAUNCH INDIRECT
ATTACKS ON WESTERN SOIL.
ATTACKS ON WESTERN SOIL. THEY
REALLY HAVE BECOME A GLOBAL
THEY REALLY HAVE BECOME A GLOBAL
SYNDICATE CAPABLE OF ACTIVATING
OPERATIVES IN THE FIELD.
IN THE CASE OF ABAAOUD IN
PARTICULAR, THIS IS SOMEBODY WHO
WAS ABLE TO SLIP BACK AND FORTH
ACROSS EUROPEAN BORDERS, GO TO
ACROSS EUROPEAN
BORDERS, GO TO SYRIA.
SYRIA. HE WAS SEEN EVIDENTLY AS
HE WAS SEEN EVIDENTLY AS
RECENTLY AS A FEW MONTHS AGO IN
RECENTLY AS A FEW
MONTHS AGO IN GREECE.
GREECE. THAT WAS
TODAY'S REVELATION.
THAT WAS TODAY'S REVELATION. SO,
YOU KNOW, THIS REALLY CAUGHT
SO, YOU KNOW, THIS REALLY CAUGHT
FRENCH OFFICIALS OFFGUARD.D.
>> Ifill: AND WE'RE
DISCOVERING NOW HE HAD OTHER
DISCOVERING NOW HE HAD
OTHER PLOTS IN MIND?
PLOTS IN MIND? >> IN
FACT, WE SPOKE TO FRENCH
>> IN FACT, WE SPOKE TO FRENCH
OFFICIALS TODAY AND THEY TOLD US
THAT THEY BELIEVE THAT EITHER HE
OR THE MILITANTS INVOLVED WITH
HIM WERE PLANNING AN ADDITIONAL
ATTACK IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
IS ONE OF THE MOST PARIS..
THERE WERE OTHER PLOTS AFOOD.
HE WAS THINKING OF LAUNCHING AN
ATTACK AGAINST PARIS' BUSINESS
ATTACK AGAINST PARIS'
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
DISTRICT. >> Ifill: WHY BELGIUM?
>> Ifill: WHY BELGIUM? WHY
IS BELGIUM SUCH A HOT BED
WHY IS BELGIUM SUCH A HOT BED
FOR THIS KIND OF ACTIVITY IS
FOR THIS KIND OF
ACTIVITY IS THIS.
THIS. >> WELL, BELGIUM
TRADITIONALLYLY
>> WELL, BELGIUM TRADITIONALLYLY
HAVE GIVEN ASYLUM 20 YEARS AGO
TO A LOT OF VERY RADICAL PEOPLE
WHO IN A WAY HAVE RADICALIZE ADD
WHO IN A WAY HAVE RADICALIZE
ADD NEW GENERATION.IO
NEW GENERATION.IO THERE
HAVE BEEN A FEW GROUPS
THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW
GROUPS THAT OPERATE THERE.
THAT OPERATE THERE. THEY'RE
NOT NECESSARILY VIOLENT
THEY'RE NOT NECESSARILY
VIOLENT A FEW YEARS AGO.
A FEW YEARS AGO. WHEN THE
CONFLICT IN SYRIA BROKE
WHEN THE CONFLICT IN SYRIA BROKE
OUT, THEY STARTED RECRUITING AND
MOBILIZING ACROSS THE THRESHOLD
MOBILIZING ACROSS THE
THRESHOLD TO VIOLENCE.
TO VIOLENCE. THE BELL
JNS NEVER CRACKED DOWN
THE BELL JNS NEVER
CRACKED DOWN ON THEM.
ON THEM. IT'S ALSO A
COUNTRY WHO HAS A
IT'S ALSO A COUNTRY WHO HAS
A LOT OF POLITICAL PROBLEMS
LOT OF POLITICAL PROBLEMS
INTERNALLY, THE DIVISION BETWEEN
THE FRENCH AND DUTCH SPEAKING
PART, THE POLITICAL DIVISIONS
INSIDE OF BELGIUM FOR THEN THE
FORMATION OF A UNIFIED LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY IS PREVENTED.NT
AGENCY IS PREVENTED.NT THEY
HAVEN'T CRACKED DOWN ON THE
THEY HAVEN'T CRACKED
DOWN ON THE NETWORKS.
NETWORKS. THERE IS A
LOT OF ORGANIZEDE
THERE IS A LOT OF ORGANIZEDE
CRIME WHICH IS WHY IT'S EASY FOR
TERRORISTS TO GET BLACK MARKET
WEAPONS AND OTHER PLACES IN
WEAPONS AND OTHER
PLACES IN BELGIUM.
BELGIUM. >> Ifill:
WE HEARD THE PRIME
>> Ifill: WE HEARD THE PRIME
MINISTER OR THE FOREIGN MINISTER
SAY THEY WERE WORRIED ABOUT
CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL ATTACKS
CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL
ATTACKS IN THE WORKS.
IN THE WORKS. DO WEKS
KNOW WHAT THAT'S BASED ?
DO WEKS KNOW WHAT THAT'S BASED ?
HAVE YOU HEARD ANY REPORTING
THAT SUGGESTS THAT THAT'S THE
NEXT WORRY, STACEY MEICHTRY?
NEXT WORRY, STACEY
MEICHTRY? >> WE DON'T --
>> WE DON'T -- LL --
LL -- >> Ifill: MR.
MEICHTRY FIRST.
>> Ifill: MR. MEICHTRY
FIRST. T'S A CONSTANT DERN.
T'S A CONSTANT DERN. W
-- CONSTANTCONCERN.
W -- CONSTANTCONCERN. WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ISLAMIC
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ISLAMIC
STATE YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT A
GROUP THAT OCCUPIES TERRITORY
WHERE THERE WERE MATERIALS TO
WHERE THERE WERE MATERIALS
TO MAKE CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
MAKE CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
EVIDENTLY, THERE WAS AN
AGREEMENT STRUCK IN ORDER TO
DEWEAPONIZE THOSE ARMS, BUT YOU
DEWEAPONIZE THOSE ARMS,
BUT YOU NEVER KNOW.
NEVER KNOW. THERE ARE
CONCERNS ALWAYS THAT
THERE ARE CONCERNS ALWAYS THAT
THERE ARE STILL MATERIALS OUT
THERE ARE STILL
MATERIALS OUT THERE.
THERE. >> Ifill:
LORENZO VIDINO OF
>> Ifill: LORENZO VIDINO OF THE
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
PROGRAM ON EXTREMISM AND STACEYC
MEICHTRY OF THE "WALL STREET
MEICHTRY OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
JOURNAL." THANK YOU
BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW THE POLITICS
OF REFUGEES HERE AT HOME.
REFUGEES HERE AT HOME.
POLITICIANS AT ALL LEVELS, FROM
POLITICIANS AT ALL LEVELS,
FROM BO PARTHTIES, WEIGHED IN.
BO PARTHTIES, WEIGHED IN.
OUR POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
OUR POLITICAL DIRECTOR
LISA DESJARDINS REPORTS.DI
DESJARDINS REPORTS.DI >>
Reporter: DOMINATING THE U.S.
>> Reporter: DOMINATING THE U.S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES TODAY:
THE REFUGEE CRISIS THAT'S BEEN
PLAGUING EUROPE FOR MONTHS.
PLAGUING EUROPE FOR MONTHS. AS
A BIPARTISAN MAJORITY EASILY
AS A BIPARTISAN MAJORITY EASILY
PASSED WHAT'S CALLED THE AMERICI
PASSED WHAT'S CALLED THE
AMERICI "SAFE" ACT.
"SAFE" ACT. THE BILL
DOES NOT MANDATE A
THE BILL DOES NOT MANDATE A
PAUSE, BUT WOULD LIKELY FORCE
ONE BY REQUIRING THAT EACH
SYRIAN OR IRAQI REFUGEE GET A
SYRIAN OR IRAQI REFUGEE GET
A BACKGROUND CHECK FROM THE
BACKGROUND CHECK FROM THE
F.B.I., SOMETHING THE F.B.I.
DIRECTOR HAS SAID MAY NOT BE
POSSIBLE DUE TO LACK OF DATA
POSSIBLE DUE TO LACK OF
DATA FROM THE REGION.
FROM THE REGION. THEN
THE F.B.I. DIRECTOR,
THEN THE F.B.I. DIRECTOR,
DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE AND THE SECRETARY
OF HOMELAND SECURITY WOULD
PERSONALLY NEED TO SIGN OFF ONOF
PERSONALLY NEED TO SIGN
OFF ONOF EACH REFUGEE.
EACH REFUGEE. IN THE
EYES OF SPEAKER OF THE
IN THE EYES OF SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE PAUL RYAN, THE BILL FILLS
GAPS IN A DANGEROUSLY WEAK
GAPS IN A DANGEROUSLY
WEAK VETTING PROCESS.
VETTING PROCESS. >> OUR
OWN LAW ENFORCEMENT
>> OUR OWN LAW ENFORCEMENT
EXPERTS ARE TELLING US THAT THEY
DON'T HAVE CONFIDENCE THAT CAN
DETECT OR BLOCK, WITH THE
CURRENT STANDARDS IN PLACE, THAT
ISIL, OR ISIS, HAS NOT TRIED TO
ISIL, OR ISIS, HAS NOT TRIED
TO INFILTRATE THE REFUGEEEE
INFILTRATE THE
REFUGEEEE POPULATION.
POPULATION. >> Reporter:
HOUSE MINORITY
>> Reporter: HOUSE MINORITY
LEADER NANCY PELOSI STRESSED
HUMANITARIAN CONCERNS,
HIGHLIGHTING THE DANGERS THESE
SYRIANS AND IRAQIS FACE.
SYRIANS AND IRAQIS FACE. >>
FAMILIES IN SYRIA AND IRAQAN
>> FAMILIES IN SYRIA AND IRAQAN
ARE DESPERATELY TRYING TO ESCAPE
ISIS' GRUESOME CAMPAIGN OFN
TORTURE, RAPE, AND TERROR AND
VIOLENCE OF THE ASSAD REGIME.
THE REPUBLICAN BILL BEFORE THEE
HOUSE TODAY SEVERELY HANDICAPS
THE REFUGEE SETTLEMENT OF THE
THE REFUGEE SETTLEMENT OF
THE FUTURE IN OUR COUNTRY.
FUTURE IN OUR COUNTRY. >>
Reporter: BUT IT MAY BE
>> Reporter: BUT IT MAY BE
REACTION WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE. B
THE WHITE HOUSE, HAS ALREADY
VOWED TO VETO AND THE BILL FACES
UNCERTAIN FATE IN THE SENATE.
WHERE DEMOCRATS PROPOSE A
DIFFERENT APPROACH, TOUGHEN
REQUIREMENTS FORISIT VORS FROM
FRIENDLY COUNTRIES, WHO CAN
ARRIVE WITH LITTLE VETTING AND
ARRIVE WITH LITTLE
VETTING AND NO VISA NOW.
NO VISA NOW. >> THE
VISA-WAIVER PROGRAM, HAS
>> THE VISA-WAIVER PROGRAM, HAS
MANY, MANY MORE PEOPLE GOINGHA
THROUGH WITH MILLIONS.
THROUGH WITH MILLIONS. IT
TAKES VIRTUALLY NO TIME, AS
IT TAKES VIRTUALLY NO TIME,
AS OPPOSED TO 18 MONTHS TO 24
OPPOSED TO 18 MONTHS TO 24
MONTHS, AND THERE IS MUCH LESS
MONTHS, AND THERE IS
MUCH LESS VETTING.
VETTING. WE NEED TO
REALLY TIGHTEN UP
WE NEED TO REALLY TIGHTEN
UP THAT PROGRAM.
THAT PROGRAM. >> Reporter:
THE POLITICAL WAVET
>> Reporter: THE POLITICAL WAVET
CONTINUED TO ON THE LOCAL LEVEL.
THE DEMOCRATIC MAYOR OF ROANOKEO
VIRGINIA, DEMOCRAT DAVID BOWERS,
JOINED DOZENS OF MOSTLY O
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS IN OPPOSING
THE RE-SETTLEMENT OF REFUGEES IN
THE RE-SETTLEMENT OF REFUGEES
IN THEIR COMMUNITIES.
THEIR COMMUNITIES. >> I
HAVE NO OPPOSITION TO
>> I HAVE NO OPPOSITION TO
AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN
ASSISTING THE REFUGEES.
ASSISTING THE REFUGEES. I JUST
DON'T THINK IT'S TIME TOT
I JUST DON'T THINK IT'S TIME
TOT BRING THEM OVER HERE.
BRING THEM OVER HERE. >>
Reporter: BUT JUST A FEW
>> Reporter: BUT JUST A FEW
HOURS DRIVE FROM ROANOKE, IN
ARLINGTON COUNTY, VIRGINIA,ON
THEY'RE KEEPING OUT THE WELCOME
THEY'RE KEEPING OUT
THE WELCOME MAT.
MAT. WE HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO MAKE
WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO MAKE
SURE PEOPLE FROM ALL WALKS OF O
LIFE WHO LIVE IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND SPEAK OVER 100 LANGUAGES
AND SPEAK OVER 100
LANGUAGES FEEL WELCOMED.EL
FEEL WELCOMED.EL >>
Reporter: LOWELL
>> Reporter: LOWELL GOVERNMENTS
ARE WEIGHING IN EVEN
GOVERNMENTS ARE WEIGHING IN
EVEN THOUGH THEY LACK THE LEGAL
THOUGH THEY LACK THE LEGAL
AUTHORITY TO DIRECT THE PROCESS.
>> Woodruff: LISA JOINS ME
>> Woodruff: LISA JOINS
ME FROM THE NEWS ROOM.
FROM THE NEWS ROOM.
LOOKS LIKE NONE OF THE
REPUBLICAN PLANS TO PUT MORE
LIMITS ON THE REFUGEES COMING IN
CAN GET AROUND THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAN GET AROUND THE
PRESIDENTIAL VETO.
VETO. WHAT'S THEIR
STRATEGY AROUND
WHAT'S THEIR STRATEGY
AROUND THAT?
THAT? >> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT. THERE
ARE A COUPLE OF C
THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF C STRATEGIES.
STRATEGIES. IN THE END,
THE BEST CHANCE FOR
IN THE END, THE BEST CHANCE FOR
REPUBLICANS THEY FEEL IS TO
LEVERAGE THE NEXT BIG FISCAL
CRISIS AND IT'S NOT FAR AWAY,
CRISIS AND IT'S NOT
FAR AWAY, JUDY.
JUDY. DECEMBER 11th
IS WHEN FUNDING
DECEMBER 11th IS WHEN FUNDING
FOR MOST OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT RUNS OUT AGAIN, AND
SOME REPUBLICANS ARE TALKING
ABOUT ATTACHING TO THE BUDGET
BILL A POTENTIALLY CALLED ONLY
OMNIBUS BUDGET BILL TO FORCE A
PAUSE ON THE FLOW OF REFUGEES.
THAT BRINGS US TO A STANDOFF
SITUATION WITH THE WHITE HOUSEOU
AND NOT CLEAR AS TO HOW THE
WHITE HOUSE WOULD REACT WHETHER
EITHER SIDE WOULD ALLOW OR SHUT
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT OVER A MAJOR
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT OVER A
MAJOR NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUE.
NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUE. THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD VETO
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD VETO
THE BILL PASSED TODAY BASED ON
THE IDEA THAT HE SAID IT TAKES
RESOURCES AWAY FROM WHERE
THEY'RE NEEDED AND WOULD
OVERWHELM THE SYSTEM.ST
OVERWHELM THE SYSTEM.ST IN
ADDITION THE F.B.I. DIRECTOR
IN ADDITION THE F.B.I. DIRECTOR
TODAY SAID HE DOESN'T THINK THIS
BILL IS A GOOD IDEA EITHER.
BILL IS A GOOD IDEA EITHER. ONE
OTHER NOTE, THIS MIGHT NOT
ONE OTHER NOTE, THIS MIGHT
NOT BE THE ONLY ISSUE.
BE THE ONLY ISSUE. RAND
PAUL IS CURRENTLY PROPOSING
RAND PAUL IS CURRENTLY PROPOSING
HIS OWN BILL TO LIMIT REFUGEESS
FLOW AND HE IS STARTING TO HOLD
UP A TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING
BILL OVER THAT ISSUE AS WELL.
SO THIS IS REC SHEAING AOSS
MANY ISSUES ON THE HILL.
MANY ISSUES ON THE HILL. >>
Woodruff: LISA DESJARDINS,
>> Woodruff: LISA DESJARDINS,
THANK YOU FOR THE D REPORTING.
THANK YOU FOR THE D
REPORTING. >> YOU GOT IT.
>> YOU GOT IT. >>
Woodruff: FOR MORE ON THE
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON
THE DEBATE OVER REFUGEEOR
DEBATE OVER REFUGEEOR
RESETTLEMENT, I'M JOINED BY
VIRGINIA CONGRESSMAN GERRY
CONNOLLY, HE WAS ONE OF
47 DEMOCRATS WHO VOTED TO
TIGHTEN CONTROL OF REFUGEES.
AND EROL KEKIC, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE IMMIGRATION
DIRECTOR OF THE IMMIGRATION AND
REFUGEE PROGRAM FOR CHURCH
AND REFUGEE PROGRAM FOR CHURCH
WORLD SERVICE, AN ORGANIZATION
THAT PROVIDES PLACEMENT AND
ASSISTANCE TO REFUGEES AROUND
ASSISTANCE TO REFUGEES
AROUND THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH. SO
CONGRESSMAN W CONNOLLY, LET E
SO CONGRESSMAN W CONNOLLY,
LET E START WITH YOU.
START WITH YOU. WHY
DID YOU JOIN WITH THE
WHY DID YOU JOIN WITH THE
REPUBLICANS TO VOTE FOR THIS
LEGISLATION PROPOSAL TO TIGHTEN
RESTRICTIONS ON THESE REFUGEES
RESTRICTIONS ON THESE
REFUGEES FROM SYRIA AND IRAQ?
FROM SYRIA AND IRAQ? >>
WELL, THE TIGHTENING HAS TO
>> WELL, THE TIGHTENING HAS
TO DO WITH CERTIFICATION.
DO WITH CERTIFICATION. THE
BILL ESSENTIALLY REQUIRES
THE BILL ESSENTIALLY REQUIRES
THREE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, THE
HEAD OF THE F.B.I., THE HEAD OF
HEAD OF THE F.B.I., THE HEAD
OF THE D.N.I. AND THE HEAD OF
THE D.N.I. AND THE HEAD OF
HOMELAND SECURITY, TO CERTIFY
THAT THE REFUGEES BEING ALLOWEDD
IN THE COUNTRY ARE IN FACT NOT
TERRORISTS, THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
TERRORISTS, THAT THEY
HAVE BEEN VETTED.Y .
VETTED.Y . THAT ADDS
AN EXTRA LAYER OF
THAT ADDS AN EXTRA LAYER OF
BUREAUCRATIC REVIEW, BUT THAT'S
BUREAUCRATIC REVIEW, BUT
THAT'S WHAT IT DOES.
WHAT IT DOES. IT DOESN'T
STOP THE PROGRAM..
IT DOESN'T STOP THE PROGRAM..
IT DOESN'T EVEN HAVE A PAUSE BY
IT DOESN'T EVEN HAVE
A PAUSE BY STATUTE.
STATUTE. IT DOESN'T
FINGER A PARTICULAR
IT DOESN'T FINGER A
PARTICULAR ETHNIC GROUP.
ETHNIC GROUP. IT'S
NOT ISLAMIC PHOBIC
IT'S NOT ISLAMIC PHOBIC
ACCORDING TO THE RHETORIC OF THE
ACCORDING TO THE RHETORIC OF
THE REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES AND
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES AND
GOVERNORS WHICH I FIND REPUG
NANLT AND ALLOWS THE REFUGEE
PROGRAM TO CONTINUE.
PROGRAM TO CONTINUE. IT IS
AE. BUREAUCRATIC PROGRAM T
IT IS AE. BUREAUCRATIC PROGRAM T
IT SEEMS TO ME DOES THE LEAST
AMOUNT OF HARM UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE AMERICANS
WANT REASSURANCE THAT WE'RE NOT
UNWILLINGLY LETTING PEOPLE INTO
THE COUNTRY WHO CAN DO US HARM.
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT JUST THE
REPUBLICANS MAKING ONE ARGUMENT,
IT'S THE ARGUMENT FROM THE
PRESIDENT WHO SAYS THIS IS
HYSTERIA OVER WHAT HE CALLS
WIDOWS, ORPHANS, OLDER PEOPLE
AND VERY YOUNG CHILDREN, AND HE
SAID IT DOES BASICALLY SHUT DOWN
SAID IT DOES BASICALLY
SHUT DOWN THE REFUGEE --
THE REFUGEE -- >> WELL,
I DON'T THINK HE READRE
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK
HE READRE THIS BILL.
THIS BILL. I THINK HE
WASLL REACTED TO THEH
I THINK HE WASLL REACTED TO THEH
EARLIER WAVE OF DEMAGOGUE RIAND
ISLAMPHOBIA AND NATIVISM COMING
OUT OF REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES ANDL THE REPUBLICAN
GOVERNORS, AND I AGREE WITH THE
GOVERNORS, AND I AGREE WITH
THE PRESIDENT BUT H THIS BILL
PRESIDENT BUT H THIS
BILL DOESN'T DO THAT.
DOESN'T DO THAT. >>
Woodruff: LET ME TURN TO
>> Woodruff: LET ME
TURN TO EROL KEKIC.
EROL KEKIC. YOUR
ORGANIZATION WORKS WITH
YOUR ORGANIZATION WORKS WITH
SEVERAL OTHER ORGANIZATIONS.
YOU HAVE SOMETHING LIKE 400
OFFICES AROUND THE COUNTRY, 49
OFFICES AROUND THE
COUNTRY, 49 STATES.
STATES. MY QUESTION IS
MY QUESTION IS WHAT DO YOU MAKE
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF
THESE EFFORTS?RT
OF THESE EFFORTS?RT YOU HAVE
BEEN WORKING WITH THESE
YOU HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH THESE
REFUGEES FOR YEARS AND YEARS.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THIS EFFORT
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THIS
EFFORT TODAY IN THE CONGRESS?
TODAY IN THE CONGRESS? >>
WE'RE CERTAINLY RATHER
>> WE'RE CERTAINLY RATHER
DISAPPOINTED THAT THE ELECTED
OFFICIALS HAVE SUCCUMBED TO THIS
MASS HYSTERIA THAT HAS BEEN
SPEWING OVER THE AIRWAYS FOR THE
SPEWING OVER THE AIRWAYS FOR
THE LAST FOUR OR FIVE DAYS.
LAST FOUR OR FIVE DAYS. EVEN
THE PRESIDENT OF FRANCE
EVEN THE PRESIDENT OF FRANCE
WHOSE COUNTRY HAS BEEN UNDER THE
HORRIBLE ATTACK HAS ACTUALLY
COME FORWARD AND SAID DESPITE
THIS THEY WILL STILL ACCEPT
30,000 REFUGEES OVER THE NEXT
TWO YEARS AND, AT THE SAME TIME,
HERE WE ARE IN THE UNITED STATES
WHERE WE HAD THIS ORDERLY
PROGRAM, WHEN WE HAD REFUGEES
VETTED BY A NUMBER OF
INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY
AGENCIES, FALLING FOR THIS HIS
TEARIA TRYING TO PREVENT PEOPLE
FROM COME INTO OUR MIDST, THIS
IS REPUGNANT AND DISGUSTING.
>> Woodruff: I THINK YOU HEARD
CONGRESSMAN CONNOLLY SAY IT'S
MERELY AN EFFORT TO TIGHTEN UP
MERELY AN EFFORT TO TIGHTEN
UP THE SCRUTINY THAT ALREADY
THE SCRUTINY THAT
ALREADY EXISTS.
EXISTS. >> REFUGEES
ARE ALREADY THE MOST
>> REFUGEES ARE ALREADY THE MOST
SCRUTINIZED GROUP OF TRAVELERSRS
TO EVER ENTER THE UNITED STATESI
TO EVER ENTER THE UNITED
STATESI OF AMERICA.
OF AMERICA. THEY GO
THROUGH AN EXTENSIVE
THEY GO THROUGH AN EXTENSIVE
PROCESS OF VETTING DONE BY THE
MOST ADVANCED AGENCIES WE HAVE
MOST ADVANCED AGENCIES WE
HAVE IN VIEW OF GOVERNMENT.
IN VIEW OF GOVERNMENT. IF
YOU CAN'T TRUST THE U.S.
IF YOU CAN'T TRUST THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT TO DO SOMETHING,
THAT'S A DIFFERENT STORY.
THAT'S A DIFFERENT STORY. BUT
WE ARE CONFIDENT THAT THE
BUT WE ARE CONFIDENT THAT THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS PUT IN
PLACED A QUAT MEASURES TO
SCREEN -- PUT IN ADEQUATE
MEASURES TO SCREEN AND SCREEN
AGAIN REFUGEES COMING INTO THE
AGAIN REFUGEES COMING
INTO THE PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. THESE PEOPLE
ARE FOR EXOM WE
THESE PEOPLE ARE FOR EXOM WE
HAVE BACKGROUND INFORMATION,TI
BIOMETRIC INFORMATION, SEEN BY
BIOMETRIC INFORMATION, SEEN
BY THE HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR
THE HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR
REFUGEES BEFORE THEY EVER GET TO
WALK THROUGH THE SYSTEM WE HAVE
TODAY, THEY HAVE BEEN SEEN BY
THE DEPARTMENTS OF HOMELAND
SECURITY, STATE, DEFENSE AND A
SECURITY, STATE, DEFENSE AND
A NUMBER OF OTHER AGENCIES.
NUMBER OF OTHER AGENCIES. BUT
TO FOCUS ON THIS PARTICULAR
BUT TO FOCUS ON THIS PARTICULAR
GROUP INSTEAD OF ALL THE OTHER
GROUPS OF TRAVELERS COMING TOIN
THE U.S. IS A WASTE OF TIME AND
THE U.S. IS A WASTE OF
TIME AND RESOURCES.
RESOURCES. >>
Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN
CONNOLLY, YOU'RE HEARING HIM SAY
THERE IS ALREADY A VERY THOROUGH
VETTING PROCESS IN PLACE NOW.
VETTING PROCESS IN PLACE
NOW. >> INDEED IT IS.
>> INDEED IT IS. I BELIEVE
THE>> CHAMBERREN OF TE
I BELIEVE THE>> CHAMBERREN OF TE
HOMELAND SECURITY COMMITTEE AND
SPEAKER RYAN HAVE PUT TOGETHER A
VENTILATION BILL THAT DOES HARM.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU
MEAN? PROVE TO US THAT WE'RE
PROVE TO US THAT WE'RE
PROTECT AND SECURE.
PROTECT AND SECURE. >>
Woodruff: ARE YOU HEARING
>> Woodruff: ARE
YOU HEARING THAT?
THAT? >> ALL OF USTH ARE.LL
>> ALL OF USTH ARE.LL I HAVE
ENORMOUS RESPECT FOR THE
I HAVE ENORMOUS RESPECT FOR THE
GENTLEMAN HOW JUST INTERVIEWED.
I MYSELF HAVE A REFUGEES
BACKGROUND AND I HAVE CALLED FOR
EXPANDING SYRIAN REFUGEES COMING
EXPANDING SYRIAN REFUGEES
COMING INTO THE UNITED STATES.
INTO THE UNITED STATES. THIS
IS A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS
THIS IS A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS
AND THE BIGGEST RECRUITMENT
OPPORTUNITY FOR I.S.I.S. IS
REFUGEES CAMPS LEFT UNATTENDED.
BUT IT'S A BALANCING ACT HERE.
THIS LEGISLATION ISN'T WHAT THE
GENTLEMAN JUST DESCRIBED.BE
READ THE BILL.
READ THE BILL. IT DOESN'T
STOP THE PROGRAM.GR
IT DOESN'T STOP THE PROGRAM.GR
IT DOESN'T PREVENT REFUGEES FROM
IT DOESN'T PREVENT
REFUGEES FROM COMING IN.
COMING IN. HE'S CORRECT
THAT WE HAVE A VERY
HE'S CORRECT THAT WE HAVE A
VERY ROBUST VETTING SYSTEM NOW.
ROBUST VETTING SYSTEM NOW. THIS
ADDS ONE MORE LAYER AND ITI
THIS ADDS ONE MORE LAYER AND ITI
SEEMS TO ME THAT, IF THIS WERE
TO BECOME LAW, WE COULD WORK IT
OUT SO THAT IT'S INCORPORATEDRP
INTO EXISTING PROCEDURES AND
INTO EXISTING PROCEDURES
AND PROTOCOLS.
PROTOCOLS. >> Woodruff:
EROL KEKIC, WHAT
>> Woodruff: EROL KEKIC, WHAT
IS THE HARM DONE IF ADDITIONAL
SCRUTINY IS APPLIED TO THESE
REFUGEES IN THIS PARTICULAR TIME
REFUGEES IN THIS PARTICULAR
TIME AFTER THESE PARIS ATTACKS.
AFTER THESE PARIS ATTACKS.
>> REFUGEES LANGUISH IN RCHG
CAMPS IN URBAN SITUATIONS FOR
YEARS ON END BEFORE THEY'RE EVER
YEARS ON END BEFORE THEY'RE
EVER REFERRED TO THIS PROGRAM.
REFERRED TO THIS PROGRAM.
THEN THEY GO THROUGH THIS
EXTENSIVE PROCESS WHICH TAKES
ANYWHERE BETWEEN ONE AND THREE
ANYWHERE BETWEEN ONE
AND THREE YEARS.
YEARS. I HAVE BEEN
HEARING THIS 18 TO
I HAVE BEEN HEARING
THIS 18 TO 24 MONTHS.
24 MONTHS. IN REALITY,
THE PROCESS TAKES
IN REALITY, THE PROCESS TAKES
MORE THAN THREE YEARS.
MORE THAN THREE YEARS. IF
WE ADDED A ADDITIONAL LAYER
IF WE ADDED A ADDITIONAL LAYER
TO THIS SYSTEM HERE, ARE WE
TRYING TO REALLY AGE PEOPLE OUT
OF THE SYSTEM BEFORE THEY VET
OF THE SYSTEM BEFORE
THEY VET THEM?
THEM? WE CAN'T HAVE THIS DEBATE.
WE CAN'T HAVE THIS DEBATE. THE
WINTER IS COMING AND WE DO
THE WINTER IS COMING AND WE DO
NOT HAVE ENOUGH MONEY TO SUPPORT
NOT HAVE ENOUGH MONEY TO
SUPPORT THEM IN THE CAMPS.
THEM IN THE CAMPS.
WE NEED TO DO MORE.
WE NEED TO DO MORE. >>
Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
THE HUANITARIAN ASPECT,
HUANITARIAN ASPECT, CONGRESSMAN?
CONGRESSMAN? >> 98%
OF REFUGEES THAT HAVE
>> 98% OF REFUGEES THAT HAVE
BEEN ALLOWED INTO THE COUNTRY
FROM SYRIA AND IRAQ ARE ELDERLY
WOMEN AND CHILDREN, 98%.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN, 98%. DO
THEY REALLY BELIEVE AN EXTRA
DO THEY REALLY BELIEVE AN EXTRA
CERTIFICATION WILL EXCLUDE THAT
CERTIFICATION WILL
EXCLUDE THAT 98%?
98%? I DON'T THINK SO.
I DON'T THINK SO. ITH
THINK WE'RE WORRIED --
ITH THINK WE'RE WORRIED -- >>
THERE COULD BE AND WE WANT TO
>> THERE COULD BE AND WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN.
BUT AGAIN, THE QUESTION WAS ARE
WE GOING TO RESPOND IN ANY
FASHION OR NOT TO THE TRAGEDYDY
THAT JUST OCCURRED IN EUROPE OR
THAT JUST OCCURRED IN EUROPE
OR ARE WE GOING TO DECLARE
ARE WE GOING TO DECLARE
EVERYTHING IS FINE HERE AND
WE'RE UNWILLING TO EVEN LOOK AT
AN EXTRA CERTIFICATION TO MAKE
AN EXTRA CERTIFICATION
TO MAKE DOUBLY SURE?
DOUBLY SURE? I CAME
DOWN ON THE LATTER SIDE
I CAME DOWN ON THE LATTER SIDE
BECAUSE I HEARD FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE THIS MORNING, AND THEIR
ARGUMENT AGAINST IT WAS
ESSENTIALLY WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
STAFF TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.N
>> Woodruff: FINALLY,
MR. KEKIC, WHAT ARE THE
MR. KEKIC, WHAT ARE
THE CONSEQUENCES?
CONSEQUENCES? RIGHT
NOW THE PRESIDENT IS
RIGHT NOW THE PRESIDENT IS
SAYING HE'LL VETO IT IN THE
SAYING HE'LL VETO
IT IN THE SENATE.
SENATE. NO INDICATION
THE SENATE WILL
NO INDICATION THE SENATE WILL
PASS IT BUT IT HAS PASSED THE
HOHOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
HOHOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. IF
IT BECOMES LAW, WHAT WILL THE
IF IT BECOMES LAW, WHAT
WILL THE CONSEQUENCE BE?
CONSEQUENCE BE? >>
WE'RE CONCERNED THE
>> WE'RE CONCERNED THE
ADDITIONAL LAYER WILL MESS UP
THE SYSTEM THAT ALREADY EXISTS,,
THE SYSTEM THAT ALREADY
EXISTS,, SO THE PRE-CHECKS AND
SO THE PRE-CHECKS AND
CLEARANCES, THEY ALL HAVE
CLEARANCES, THEY ALL
HAVE EXPIRATION DATES.
EXPIRATION DATES. ALL OF
THIS WILL GO BACK TO THE
ALL OF THIS WILL GO BACK TO THE
BEGINNING OF THE SYSTEM AND WILL
ADD, TWO THREE, FOUR YEARS TO
THE ACTUAL SYSTEM THAT ALREADY
THE ACTUAL SYSTEM
THAT ALREADY EXISTS.
EXISTS. I DON'T SEE A
BENEFIT IN THAT AT
I DON'T SEE A BENEFIT
IN THAT AT ALL.
ALL. >> Woodruff:
EROL KEKIC WITH
>> Woodruff: EROL KEKIC
WITH CHURCH WORLD SERVICE.
CHURCH WORLD SERVICE.
CONGRESSMAN GERRY CONNOLLY OF
CONGRESSMAN GERRY
CONNOLLY OF VIRGINIA.
VIRGINIA. THANK YOU BOTH.U
THANK YOU BOTH.U >>
THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: A
TEXAS SCHOOL FOR YOUNG
A TEXAS SCHOOL FOR YOUNG
REFUGEES, WHERE THE TESTS THEY
FACE GO BEYOND TEXTBOOKS.
BUT FIRST, WE TURN TO THE
QUESTION OF WHY IT'S SO TOUGH TO
CHOKE OFF THE SUPPLY OF MONEY TO
CHOKE OFF THE SUPPLY
OF MONEY TO ISIS.
ISIS. THERE ARE NEW CALLS FOR
THERE ARE NEW CALLS FOR
COUNTRIES TO CRACK DOWN ON
GROUPS THAT MAY BE FINANCING F
GROUPS THAT MAY BE
FINANCING F THEM.
THEM. EARLIER TODAY,
AUTHORITIES IN
EARLIER TODAY, AUTHORITIES IN
KUWAIT, WHICH SUFFERED ITS WORST
ATTACK FROM ISIS THIS SUMMER,
ARRESTED MEMBERS OF A CELL
PROVIDING MONEY AND ARMS TO THE
PROVIDING MONEY AND
ARMS TO THE TERRORISTS.
TERRORISTS. NEW ESTIMATES
SHOW THE MILITANTS
NEW ESTIMATES SHOW THE MILITANTS
HAVE RESOURCES IN THE MIDDLE
EAST THAT GO MUCH DEEPER .
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT,
PAUL SOLMAN, BEGINS, PART OF OUR
MAKING SENSE SERIES, WHICH AIRS
EVERY THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> Reporter: SINCE THE PARIS
ATTACKS THIS WEEKEND, THE FORCES
ARRAYED AGAINST ISIS HAVE BEENE
POUNDING THE TERRITORY IT HOLDS.
AND SPECIFICALLY, HITTING OIL
IT'S BEEN EXTRACTING FOR SALE,
AS OIL IS A KEY SOURCE OF ISIS
REVENUE, HAVING MADE THE GROUP
ONE OF THE RICHEST TERRORIST
ARMIES IN HISTORY.
ARMIES IN HISTORY. EARLIER
TODAY, DEMOCRATIC
EARLIER TODAY, DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE HILLARY
CLINTON INSISTED THE U.S. SHOULD
BE TARGETING ISIS' MONEY.
BE TARGETING ISIS' MONEY. >>
WHEN IT COMES TO TERRORIST
>> WHEN IT COMES TO TERRORIST
FINANCING, WE HAVE TO GO AFTER
THE NODES THAT FACILITATE
ILLICIT TRADE AND TRANSACTIONS.
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL SHOULD
UPDATE ITS TERRORISM SANCTIONS.
THEY HAVE A RESOLUTION THAT DOES
BLOCK TERRORIST FINANCING AND
OTHER ENABLING ACTIVITIES BUT WE
HAVE TO PLACE MORE OBLIGATIONSS
ON COUNTRIES TO POLICE THEIR OWN
ON COUNTRIES TO POLICE
THEIR OWN BANKS.
BANKS. >> Reporter: REPUBLICAN
>> Reporter: REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATE DONALD TRUMP HAS BEEN
CANDIDATE DONALD TRUMP HAS
BEEN EVEN MORE AGGRESSIVE.VE
EVEN MORE AGGRESSIVE.VE >>
ISIS IS MAKING A TREMENDOUS
>> ISIS IS MAKING A TREMENDOUS
MOUNAT OF MONEY BECAUSE THEY
HAVE CERTAIN AREAS OF OIL THEY
TOOK AWAY, THERE'S SOME IN
TOOK AWAY, THERE'S SOME
IN SYRIA, SOME IN IRAQ.
SYRIA, SOME IN IRAQ. I WOULD
BOMB THE (BLEEP) OUT
I WOULD BOMB THE (
BLEEP) OUT OF THEM.
OF THEM. >> Reporter:
MEANWHILE, THERE'SE
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, THERE'SE
BEEN A DEBATE OVER JUST HOW MUCH
BEEN A DEBATE OVER JUST HOW
MUCH MONEY ISIS ACTUALLY HAS.
MONEY ISIS ACTUALLY HAS.
LAST YEAR, DAVID COHEN, THEN
LAST YEAR, DAVID COHEN,
THEN WITH THE U.S. TREASURY
WITH THE U.S. TREASURY
DEPARTMENT, SAID ON THEE
DEPARTMENT, SAID
ON THEE NEWSHOUR.
NEWSHOUR. >> I
THINK, TODAY, IN THE
>> I THINK, TODAY, IN THE
AFTERMATH OF SOME OF THE
AIRSTRIKES THAT HAVE BEEN TAKEN,
AS WELL AS SOME OF THE EFFORTS
THAT HAVE BEEN UNDERTAKEN TO
RESTRICT ISIL'S ABILITY TO USE
THESE SMUGGLING NETWORKS, OUR
ESTIMATE IS THAT ISIL IS NOW
EARNING SOMETHING ON THE ORDER
OF A COUPLE MILLION DOLLARS A
OF A COUPLE MILLION
DOLLARS A WEEK.
WEEK. >> Reporter: A REPORT IN
>> Reporter: A REPORT IN
"BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK"
SUGGESTS COHEN WAS OVERLY
OPTIMISTIC, CITING NEW DATA FROM
THE TREASURY THAT ISIS ACTUALLY
TOOK IN AS MUCH AS HALF A
BILLION DOLLARS IN THE PAST YEAR
BILLION DOLLARS IN THE
PAST YEAR FROM OIL.
FROM OIL. BUT JUST
YESTERDAY, ARMY COLONEL
BUT JUST YESTERDAY, ARMY COLONEL
STEVE WARREN, SPOKESMAN FOR THE
JOINT TASK FORCE, SAID THE
STEPPED-UP OFFENSIVE AGAINST
ISIS' MAIN SOURCE OF WEALTH IS
ISIS' MAIN SOURCE OF
WEALTH IS PAYING OFF.
PAYING OFF. FOR THE
FIRST TIME, THE U.S. IS
FOR THE FIRST TIME, THE U.S. IS
ATTACKING OIL DELIVERY TRUCKS.
>> IN AL-BUKAMAL, WE DESTROYED
116 TANKER TRUCKS, WHICH WENK
BELIEVE WILL REDUCE ISIL'S
ABILITY TO TRANSPORT ITS STOLENO
ABILITY TO TRANSPORT ITS
STOLENO OIL PRODUCTS.
OIL PRODUCTS. >> Reporter:
BESIDES THE OIL
>> Reporter: BESIDES THE OIL
FIELDS IN IRAQ AND SYRIA THAT
ISIS CONTROLS, THERE ARE THREE
OTHER MAJOR SOURCES OF TERRORIST
OTHER MAJOR SOURCES OF
TERRORIST FUNDING:UR
FUNDING:UR TAXATION,
WHICH MIGHT JUST AS
TAXATION, WHICH MIGHT JUST AS
EASILY BE CALLED "EXTORTION" IND
EASILY BE CALLED "EXTORTION"
IND THE CASE OF ISIS;
THE CASE OF ISIS;
KIDNAPPING FOR RANSOM; AND
FINALLY, THE LOOTING AND THE
SALE OF PRECIOUS ANTIQUITIES
SMUGGLED FROM THE REGION.
SMUGGLED FROM THE REGION. THIS
IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENTC
THIS IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENTC
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING FOR THEN,
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING
FOR THEN, PBS NEWSHOUR.
PBS NEWSHOUR. >> Ifill:
WILLIAM BRANGHAM HAS
>> Ifill: WILLIAM BRANGHAM HAS
MORE ABOUT HOW ISIS GETS ITS
MORE ABOUT HOW ISIS
GETS ITS FUNDING.
FUNDING. >> Brangham:
AND FOR THAT I'M
>> Brangham: AND FOR THAT I'M
JOINED BY CAM SIMPSON FROM
LONDON, A REPORTER FROM
"BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK" WHO
WATCHES THIS SUBJECT AT CO-WROTE
WATCHES THIS SUBJECT AT
CO-WROTE THAT COVER STORY.
THAT COVER STORY. CAM
SIMPSON, YOU. REPORT ON
CAM SIMPSON, YOU. REPORT ON
SEVERAL MISCONCEPTIONS THAT THE
SEVERAL MISCONCEPTIONS THAT
THE U.S. HAD ABOUT I.S.I.S.'S
U.S. HAD ABOUT I.S.I.S.'S
CAPACITIES WITH REGARDS TO OIL.A
WHAT WAS IT SPECIFICALLY WE GOT
WHAT WAS IT SPECIFICALLY
WE GOT WRONG?
WRONG? >> BOY, I
THINK, YOU KNOW,
>> BOY, I THINK, YOU KNOW,
WILLIAM, UNFORTUNATELY, WE
PRETTY MUCH GOT EVERYTHING
PRETTY MUCH GOT
EVERYTHING WRONG.
WRONG. WE SEVERELY
MISCALCULATED THE
WE SEVERELY MISCALCULATED THE
DAMAGE THAT WE HAD INFLICTED ON
I.S.I.L'S OIL INFRASTRUCTURE
DURING THOSE STRIKES THAT
STARTED MORE THAN A YEAR AGO.
YOUGO KNOW, YOU HAD DAVID COHENN
YOUGO KNOW, YOU HAD DAVID
COHENN THAT SETUP PEACE.
THAT SETUP PEACE. THE
NUMBERS HE CITED, THE
THE NUMBERS HE CITED, THE
ADMINISTRATION CONTINUED TO CITE
FOR AT LEAST SEVEN MONTHS AFTER
THAT WELL INTO THIS YEAR THAT WE
THAT WELL INTO THIS YEAR THAT
WE HAD BOMBED THEIR OIL REVENUE
HAD BOMBED THEIR OIL REVENUE
DOWN TO ABOUT $100 MILLION A
DOWN TO ABOUT $100
MILLION A YEAR.
YEAR. YOU KNOW, WHAT
THEY DISCOVERED
YOU KNOW, WHAT THEY DISCOVERED
THIS YEAR WAS THAT THEY NOT ONLY
SIGNIFICANTLY OVERESTIMATED THE
SIGNIFICANTLY OVERESTIMATED
THE DAMAGE WE HAD DONE BUT
DAMAGE WE HAD DONE BUT
SIGNIFICANTLY UNDERESTIMATED THE
AMOUNT OF MONEY I.S.I.S.RE WAS
AMOUNT OF MONEY
I.S.I.S.RE WAS GETTING.
GETTING. SO THEIN NEW
FIGURE WE HAVE AFTR
SO THEIN NEW FIGURE WE HAVE AFTR
A RAID DEEP INTO ENEMY TERRITORY
AGAINST THE OIL AMIR OF I.S.I.S.
WHERE THEY SEIZED A MASSIVE
TROVE OF INTELLIGENCE LEDGERS IS
THEY'RE MAKING $500 MILLION A
THEY'RE MAKING $500
MILLION A YEAR.
YEAR. SO THAT'S AY
REALLY SIGNIFICANT
SO THAT'S AY REALLY
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE..
DIFFERENCE.. $400 MILLION
IS NOT A ROUNDING
$400 MILLION IS NOT
A ROUNDING ERROR.
ERROR. THAT'S PROBABLY
ENOUGH TO PAY
THAT'S PROBABLY ENOUGH TO PAY
MOST OF THEIR ARMED FORCES,
MOST OF THEIR ARMED
FORCES, MAYBE TWICE OVER.
MAYBE TWICE OVER.
IT'S A LOT OF MONEY.
IT'S A LOT OF MONEY. >>
Brangham: YOU ALSO REPORT
>> Brangham: YOU ALSO REPORT
THAT WE INITIALLY WENT AFTER
I.S.I.S.'S REFINING CAPACITY BUT
NOT THE CRUDE OIL CAPACITY.Y
WHY DOES THAT DISTINCTION
WHY DOES THAT
DISTINCTION MATTER?
MATTER? >> I THINK
INITIALLY -- AND
>> I THINK INITIALLY -- AND
AGAIN, THIS IS WHAT WE KNOW FROM
WHAT WAS SAID AT THE THE TIME
DURING THE STRIKES AND SORT OF
THE APPROACH THAT THEY TOOK A AE
TRUCKS -- YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
PEOPLE BELIEVED THAT REFINED OIL
IS OBVIOUSLY MORE VALUABLE THAN
IS OBVIOUSLY MORE
VALUABLE THAN CRUDE.
CRUDE. REFINED OIL
IS WHAT YOU ACTUALLY
REFINED OIL IS WHAT YOU ACTUALLY
BURN AND PUT IN YOUR CAR.
BURN AND PUT IN YOUR CAR. IT'S
VERSUS CRUDE OIL WHICH YOU
IT'S VERSUS CRUDE OIL WHICH YOU
CAN'T REALLY USE UNTIL IT'S
CAN'T REALLY USE
UNTIL IT'S REFINED.
REFINED. SINCE IT'SFI
MORE VALUABLE, I
SINCE IT'SFI MORE VALUABLE, I
THINK WE THOUGHT WE HAVE STORAGE
TANKS IN PLACE WHERE THEY SEIZED
OIL, THEY HAVE REFINERIYS, IF WE
TAKE NAT OUT THEY'RE FINISHED.
THAT'S NOT THE WAY IT WORKED OR
THEY COMPLETELY CHANGED THE WAY
THEY COMPLETELY CHANGED THE
WAY THEY WERE DOING BUSINESS.
THEY WERE DOING BUSINESS. NOW
WHEN DONALD TRUMP SAYS HE'LL
NOW WHEN DONALD TRUMP SAYS HE'LL
BOMB EVERYWHERE, IT DOESN'T WORK
BOMB EVERYWHERE, IT
DOESN'T WORK THAT THAT.
THAT THAT. YOU'RE THAT
YO TALK ABOUT THOUSF
YOU'RE THAT YO TALK ABOUT THOUSF
PIPES BURIED IN THE DESERT WHERE
SOMEONE CAN FILL WITH A TRUCK OR
A CAN AND I.S.I.S. GETS PAID AT
THE END TO HAVE THE HOSE PIPE
AND HE DRIVES OFF AND SELLS THE
OIL AND HE'S NOT A PART OF
OIL AND HE'S NOT A
PART OF I.S.I.S.
I.S.I.S. IT'S A
PART OF THE ENTIRE
IT'S A PART OF THE ENTIRE
ECONOMY IN THIS REGION FOR
ECONOMY IN THIS
REGION FOR EVERYBODY.
EVERYBODY. FOR FUELINGY.
GENERATORS, GETTIG
FOR FUELINGY. GENERATORS, GETTIG
ELECTRICITY, FOR ASPHALT FOR
ELECTRICITY, FOR ASPHALT
FOR ROADS, FOR EVERYTHING.
ROADS, FOR EVERYTHING. SO
IT'S INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT
SO IT'S INCREDIBLY
DIFFICULT CHALLENGE.
CHALLENGE. WHEN THE
PENTAGON SAID THIS WEEK
WHEN THE PENTAGON SAID THIS WEEK
THEY HAD BOMBED 116 TRUCKS LINED
UP AND THAT WAS THE HEADLINE, IN
SOME WAYS TO ME IT WAS ALMOST
LIKE YOU COULD SAY THE HEADLINE
IS THERE WERE 116 TRUCKS LINED
UP TO GET OIL BECAUSE WE'D BEEN
WATCHING THE TRUCKS DRIVE AROUND
FOR A YEAR AND HAVEN'T GONE
AFTER THEM SPECIFICALLY BECAUSE
THEY'RE CIVILIANS, BUT THEN
ESTIMATES THAT SOME OF THESE
LINES, THESE QUEUES AT THE
BIGGER OIL DEPOTS WHERE THE
TRUCKS ARE FILLING CAN BE TWO
MILES LONG, CAN BE FOUR MILES
MILES LONG, CAN BE
FOUR MILES LONG.
LONG. SOME OF THESE
DRIVERS SIT IN
SOME OF THESE DRIVERS SIT IN
THESE LINES FOR MONTHS, YOU
KNOW, WITH THEIR TRUCKS WAITING
TO FILL UP, SELL THE OIL AND
COME BACK AND GET ANOTHER LOAD.
>> Brangham: YOU DETAIL A LOTT
OF THE DIFFERENT WAYS I.S.I.S.
IS ABLE TO GET MONEY -- THE
SELLING OF SEX SLAVES, RANSOM
FROM KIDNAPPINGS, BANKS' MONEY
THEY'VE SEIZED WHAT WAS
INCREDIBLY FASCINATING WAS THE
INCREDIBLY FASCINATING WAS
THE SYSTEM OF TAXATION.
SYSTEM OF TAXATION. CAN YOU
EXPLAINN. A LITTLE BIT
CAN YOU EXPLAINN. A LITTLE
BIT MORE ABOUT THAT?
MORE ABOUT THAT? >> YEAH,
WHEN YOU HAVE BRUTAL
>> YEAH, WHEN YOU HAVE BRUTAL
POWER AS THEY HAVE OVER
POWER AS THEY HAVE OVER 8
MILLION PEOPLE, YOU CAN
8 MILLION PEOPLE, YOU CAN
SQUEEZE LITERALLY EVERY PIECE OF
SQUEEZE LITERALLY EVERY PIECE
OF LIFE IN THAT SYSTEM.
LIFE IN THAT SYSTEM. YOU CAN
TAX STUDENTS AND THE TAX
YOU CAN TAX STUDENTS AND THE TAX
RATES VARY DEPENDING ON THE
RATES VARY DEPENDING ON
THE GRADE THEY'RE IN.
GRADE THEY'RE IN. YOU CAN
TAX PEOPLE FOR WORKING
YOU CAN TAX PEOPLE FOR WORKING
PREVIOUSLY FOR RELIGIOUSLY
INAPPROPRIATE REGIME, WHETHER
SOLDIERS, TEACHERS, WHATEVER,ER
AND THEY HAVE TO GET AN IDENTITY
CARD THAT SAYS THEY'VE REPENTED.
YOU KNOW, THEY'VE CHARGED UP TO
$2,500 FOR AN IDENTITY CARD TO
SAY THAT YOU'VE REPENTED THAT
YOU HAVE TO RENEW EVERY YEAR
YOU HAVE TO RENEW EVERY
YEAR FOR, LIKE, $200.
FOR, LIKE, $200. THEY'RE
SQUEEZING EVERYTHING.G
THEY'RE SQUEEZING EVERYTHING.G
THEY CAN SQUEEZE EVERYTHING.T
THERE IS TAXES ON UTILITIES,
THERE IS TAXES ON
UTILITIES, MOBILE PHONES.S.
MOBILE PHONES.S. I MEAN,
THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN
I MEAN, THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN
HIT THIS WITH U.N. SANCTIONS AND
HIT THIS WITH U.N. SANCTIONS
AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING
THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING
SYSTEM, IT'S JUST SO
SYSTEM, IT'S JUST
SO FAR-FETCHED.
FAR-FETCHED. IT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE. WHEN YOU
HAVE CONTROL OF THAT
WHEN YOU HAVE CONTROL OF THAT
MANY PEOPLE, YOU CAN CONTINUE
CONTINUOUSLY SQUEEZE THEM FOROR
CONTINUOUSLY SQUEEZE THEM
FOROR ALL THE MONEY YOU NEED.
ALL THE MONEY YOU NEED. IT'S
PROBABLY A BIGGER INCOME
IT'S PROBABLY A BIGGER
INCOME SOURCE THAN THE OIL.
SOURCE THAN THE OIL.
THEY'RE GOOD AT.
THEY'RE GOOD AT. THIS
THEY HAVE BEEN DOING THIS
THIS THEY HAVE BEEN DOING THIS
FROM THE BEGINNING SINCE WE HAVE
BEEN DEALING WITH THEM SINCE
BEEN DEALING WITH
THEM SINCE 2005.
2005. THIS IS THE
SAME GROUP WE WENT
THIS IS THE SAME GROUP WE WENT
AFTER IN THE SURGE IN 2007.
THEY'RE LIKELY COLLECTING MONEY
FROM EVERY POSSIBLE SOURCE YOU
FROM EVERY POSSIBLE
SOURCE YOU CAN IMAGINE.
CAN IMAGINE. >>
Brangham: CAM SIMPSON,
>> Brangham: CAM SIMPSON,
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> MY PLEASURE, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS WE MENTIONED
EARLIER IN THE PROGRAM, THERE'S
AN ONGOING DEBATE OVER WHETHER
THE U.S. SHOULD ACCEPT SYRIAN
REFUGEES FOLLOWING THE ATTACKS
REFUGEES FOLLOWING THE
ATTACKS IN PARIS.
IN PARIS. MANY AMERICAN
CITIES ALREADY
MANY AMERICAN CITIES ALREADY
REGULARLY TAKE IN REFUGEES, NOT
JUST FROM SYRIA BUT FROM AROUND
JUST FROM SYRIA BUT
FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. ONE OF THE
MAJOR CHALLENGES
ONE OF THE MAJOR CHALLENGES
THOSE CITIES FACE IS HOW TO
EDUCATE THE CHILDREN, WHO
TYPICALLY SPEAK LITTLE OR NO
TYPICALLY SPEAK
LITTLE OR NO ENGLISH.
ENGLISH. APRIL BROWN
VISITED ONE SCHOOL
APRIL BROWN VISITED ONE SCHOOL
IN HOUSTON, TEXAS, TAKING ON
IN HOUSTON, TEXAS, TAKING
ON THAT CHALLENGE.
THAT CHALLENGE. THE
REPORT IS PART OF OUR
THE REPORT IS PART OF OUR
AMERICAN GRADUATE SERIES, A
PUBLIC MEDIA INITIATIVE FUNDED
BY THE CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.DE
BROADCASTING.DE >>
Reporter: THIS 12-YEAR OLD
>> Reporter: THIS 12-YEAR OLD
BOY IS ONE OF THOUSANDS OF
CHILDREN WHO'VE MADE THE
DANGEROUS JOURNEY FROM LATIN
AMERICA IN SEARCH OF A BRIGHTERO
AMERICA IN SEARCH OF
A BRIGHTERO FUTURE.
FUTURE. JOSE-- WHO
ASKED US NOT TO USE
JOSE-- WHO ASKED US NOT TO USE
HIS REAL NAME-- CAME TO HOUSTON
WITH HIS BROTHER AND AUNT FROM
EL SALVADOR, A COUNTRY WITH ONE
OF THE HIGHEST MURDER RATES IN
OF THE HIGHEST MURDER
RATES IN THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. CAN YOU TELL
ME WHAT HAPPENED IN
CAN YOU TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED
IN YOUR CITY, WHY YOU LEFT?
YOUR CITY, WHY YOU LEFT? >>
BECAUSE THERE IS TOO MUCH
>> BECAUSE THERE IS TOO MUCH
GUNS AND THEN THEY CAN KILL YOU.
>> Reporter: JOSE, WHO SPOKE NO
ENGLISH WHEN HE ARRIVED, IS JUST
ENGLISH WHEN HE ARRIVED, IS
JUST ONE OF A GROWING NUMBER OF
ONE OF A GROWING NUMBER OF
IMMIGRANT AND REFUGEE STUDENTS
FINDING A NEW HOME IN HOUSTON.
THE CITY HAS BECOME INCREASINGLY
ATTRACTIVE TO FOREIGNERS FLEEING
ATTRACTIVE TO FOREIGNERS
FLEEING THEIR HOMELANDS.
THEIR HOMELANDS. >> THE
REASONS WHY HOUSTON IS A
>> THE REASONS WHY HOUSTON IS A
TOP DESTINATION FOR REFUGEES IS
TOP DESTINATION FOR REFUGEES
IS AFFORDABLE COST OF LIVING,
AFFORDABLE COST OF LIVING,
VIBRANT ECONOMY, WELCOMING
ENVIRONMENT, BIG SUPPORT FOR THE
LOCAL COMMUNITIES, DIFFERENT
FAITH COMMUNITIES AND A VERY
STRONG INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
STRONG INFRASTRUCTURE
FOR REFUGEE SETTLEMENT.
REFUGEE SETTLEMENT. >>
Reporter: ALI AL SUDANI ISRE
>> Reporter: ALI AL SUDANI ISRE
THE HEAD OF REFUGEE SERVICES AT
THE HEAD OF REFUGEE SERVICES
AT INTERFAITH MINISTRIES, A
INTERFAITH MINISTRIES, A
RESETTLEMENT ORGANIZATION THAT
HELPS NEWCOMERS WITH EVERYTHING
FROM HOUSING AND JOB TRAINING
TO FINDING SCHOOLS FOR THEIR F
TO FINDING SCHOOLS FOR
THEIR F CHILDREN.
CHILDREN. AL SUDANI
IS A REFUGEE HIMSELF
AL SUDANI IS A REFUGEE HIMSELF
WHO CAME TO THE U.S. FROM IRAQ
THREE YEARS AGO AFTER SERVING AS
THREE YEARS AGO AFTER SERVING
AS A MILITARY TRANSLATOR.
A MILITARY TRANSLATOR. FOR
IMMIGRANT AND REFUGEE
FOR IMMIGRANT AND REFUGEE
STUDENTS, HE OFTEN RECOMMENDS
THE LAS AMERICAS NEWCOMERS
SCHOOL, WHERE JOSE ENROLLED ININ
SCHOOL, WHERE JOSE
ENROLLED ININ AUGUST.
AUGUST. >> WE HAVE
KIDS FROM ALL OVER
>> WE HAVE KIDS FROM
ALL OVER THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. UP TO 32
COUNTRIES AT TIMES.
UP TO 32 COUNTRIES AT TIMES.
SO WE HAVE KIDS FROM CUBA, WE
HAD KIDS FROM AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ,
HAD KIDS FROM AFGHANISTAN,
IRAQ, WE HAVE KIDS FROM CONGO,
WE HAVE KIDS FROM CONGO, >>
Reporter: MARIE MORENO IS THE
>> Reporter: MARIE MORENO IS
THE PRINCIPAL OF LAS AMERICAS.
PRINCIPAL OF LAS AMERICAS.
HER STUDENTS SPEAK NEARLY 30
LANGUAGES BUT ENGLISH IS ONE
THAT ALL ARE JUST BEGINNING TO
THAT ALL ARE JUST
BEGINNING TO LEARN.
LEARN. AND IT'S NOT
JUST A NEW LANGUAGE
AND IT'S NOT JUST A NEW
LANGUAGE THAT'S A CHALLENGE.T
THAT'S A CHALLENGE.T >>
COMING IN WITH NOT KNOWING
>> COMING IN WITH NOT KNOWING
THE LANGUAGE, NOT KNOWING THE
CULTURE IT JUST TAKES THEM AT
LEAST A YEAR OR TWO TO JUST KIND
OF ACCLIMATE, KIND OF UNDERSTAND
WHAT'S GOING ON, UNDERSTAND THE
LANGUAGE. HOW DOES
THIS ALL WORK THIS
HOW DOES THIS ALL WORK THIS
EDUCATION IN AMERICA WORK?
EDUCATION IN AMERICA WORK? AND
SO, IT JUST PROVIDES THEMD
AND SO, IT JUST PROVIDES
THEMD THAT STEPPING STONE.
THAT STEPPING STONE.
ALONGSIDE LEARNING THE ABCs,
THEY'RE ALSO INODUCTRED TO THEHE
BASICS OF LIVING IN WESTERN
BASICS OF LIVING IN
WESTERN SOCIETY.
SOCIETY. >> THEY DON'T
KNOW HOW TO HOLD A
>> THEY DON'T KNOW HOW TO HOLD
A PENCIL OR SIT IN A CHAIR.
PENCIL OR SIT IN A CHAIR. THEY
DON'T UNDERSTAND IT'S OKAY
THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND IT'S OKAY
TO HAVE FRESH TOILET PAPER IN
TO HAVE FRESH TOILET
PAPER IN THE TOILET.
THE TOILET. >> THESE
KIDS SHOW UP FROM
>> THESE KIDS SHOW UP FROM
REFUGEE CAMPS, FROM CROSSING THE
BORDER ALONE AND REUNITING WITH
BORDER ALONE AND REUNITING
WITH PARENTS AF
PARENTS AF >> Reporter:
DENA REHAL IS AN
>> Reporter: DENA REHAL IS AN
INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST
AT LAS AMERICAS WHO HELPS COACH
AT LAS AMERICAS WHO
HELPS COACH TEACHERS.O
TEACHERS.O THIS YEAR,
MOST ARE NEW TO THE T
THIS YEAR, MOST ARE NEW TO THE
T SCHOOL, JUST LIKE THE NON-
SCHOOL, JUST LIKE THE NON-
TRADITIONAL STUDENTS IN THEIRE
TRADITIONAL STUDENTS
IN THEIRE CLASSROOMS.
CLASSROOMS. >> THESE
STUDENTS ARE COMING
>> THESE STUDENTS ARE COMING
FROM BACKGROUNDS THAT INCLUDE NO
SCHOOLING, CAN INCLUDE MOVINGG
REPEATEDLY WHERE THEIR SCHOOLING
IS INTERRUPTED, COMING FROM F
BACKGROUNDS WHERE THEY MAY HAVE
TRAUMATIC EXPERIENCES THATS
AFFECT THEIR ACADEMIC SUCCESS.
SO WITH TEACHERS, WE REALLY HAVE
TO LAY THE FOUNDATION THAT THIS
TO LAY THE FOUNDATION THAT
THIS IS NOT A STUDENT WHO MAY
IS NOT A STUDENT WHO MAY
NECESSARILY PERFORM AT THE
ACADEMIC LEVEL THAT THEY ARE T
ACADEMIC LEVEL THAT
THEY ARE T CAPABLE OF.
CAPABLE OF. >> Reporter:
WHEN CHILDREN FIRST
>> Reporter: WHEN CHILDREN FIRST
ENROLL AT LAS AMERICAS, THEY
TAKE LITERACY TESTS AND ARE THEN
PLACED IN CLASSROOMS GROUPED BY
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY RATHER THANH
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
RATHER THANH GRADE-LEVEL.
GRADE-LEVEL. 14 YEAR-OLD
LUWAM AND 11 YEAR-EA
14 YEAR-OLD LUWAM AND 11 YEAR-EA
OLD GAYM ARE GOING THROUGH THE
PROCESS, HAVING JUST ARRIVED INN
PROCESS, HAVING JUST ARRIVED
INN HOUSTON AS REFUGEES FROM
HOUSTON AS REFUGEES FROM
ERITREA, CONSIDERED BY MANY TO
BE AFRICA'S MOST REPRESSIVE
BE AFRICA'S MOST
REPRESSIVE STATE.
STATE. >> IN MY
SCHOOL ONE TEACHER OF
>> IN MY SCHOOL ONE
TEACHER OF ENGLISH.
ENGLISH. >> Reporter:
EVEN THOUGH LAS
>> Reporter: EVEN THOUGH LAS
AMERICAS IS FUNDED LIKE ANY
OTHER PUBLIC SCHOOL IN HOUSTON
SERVING LOW-INCOME FAMILIES AND
ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNERS,
ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNERS, IT
HAS ADDITIONAL RESOURCES TO
IT HAS ADDITIONAL RESOURCES TO
MEET THE NEEDS OF ITS STUDENTS.
>> THEY'RE BY SUBJECT MATTER.
THIS ONE IS MATH TERMS IN
ENGLISH AND SWAHILI.Y'S
ENGLISH AND SWAHILI.Y'S >>
Reporter: MORENO HAS INVESTED
>> Reporter: MORENO HAS INVESTED
IN DICTIONARIES AND OTHER
MATERIALS THAT TRANSLATE WORDS
FROM ENGLISH TO THE CHILD'S
NATIVE TONGUE AND VICE VERSA.
EVERYONE HERE MAKES A CONCERTED
EFFORT TO RESPECT WHERE STUDENTS
EFFORT TO RESPECT WHERE
STUDENTS HAVE COME FROM.E
HAVE COME FROM.E DURING
A SUMMER TRIP TO
DURING A SUMMER TRIP TO
GUATEMALA, MORENO PICKED UP A
BOOK WRITTEN IN KI'CHE - A MAYAN
LANGUAGE THAT LAS AMERICAS
STUDENT MOISES TUMAX HAD LEARNED
ALONG WITH SPANISH GROWING UP
ALONG WITH SPANISH
GROWING UP THERE.ISNI
THERE.ISNI AT FIRST,
HE COULDN'T BELIEVE
AT FIRST, HE COULDN'T
BELIEVE SHE HAD FOUND IT.
SHE HAD FOUND IT. >>
(translated): IT'S
>> (translated): IT'S
INCREDIBLE TO SEE IT HERE, IN I
INCREDIBLE TO SEE IT HERE,
IN I THE UNITED STATES.ER
THE UNITED STATES.ER IN
GUATEMALA YOU CAN FIND THEM,F
IN GUATEMALA YOU CAN FIND THEM,F
NOT IN ANY STORE, BUT IN A BOOKA
NOT IN ANY STORE, BUT
IN A BOOKA SHOP.
SHOP. >> Reporter: WITH SO MANY
>> Reporter: WITH SO MANY LANGU
SCOMMUNICATION IS OFTEN AN
LANGU SCOMMUNICATION
IS OFTEN AN CHALLENGE.
CHALLENGE. SO TO HELP
BRIDGE THAT GAP,
SO TO HELP BRIDGE THAT GAP,
MORENO HAS BEEN TRYING NEW
FORMS OF TECHNOLOGY, INCLUDING
AN APP THAT HELPED HER SETTLE A
AN APP THAT HELPED HER SETTLE
A RECENT DISPUTE BETWEEN TWO
RECENT DISPUTE BETWEEN
TWO STUDENTS. B
STUDENTS. B >> FIGHT:
WORD GIVEN BACK IN
>> FIGHT: WORD GIVEN
BACK IN ARABIC.
ARABIC. AND SO THE KID
WOULD SAY "AH,":R
AND SO THE KID WOULD SAY "AH,":R
AND THEN HE WOULD SPEAK IN HIS
LANGUAGE AND IT WOULD PICK IT
LANGUAGE AND IT
WOULD PICK IT UP.WO
UP.WO AND THEN IT
BASICALLY SAYS IT IN
AND THEN IT BASICALLY SAYS IT IN
ARABIC AND THEN I CAN READ IT IN
ARABIC AND THEN I CAN
READ IT IN ENGLISH.HE
ENGLISH.HE >> Reporter:
SOMETIMES DISPUTES
>> Reporter: SOMETIMES DISPUTES
AND OTHER OUTBURSTS ARE A SIGN
OF THE DEEP EMOTIONAL ISSUES D
OF THE DEEP EMOTIONAL ISSUES
D MANY STUDENTS ARRIVE WITH.
MANY STUDENTS ARRIVE WITH. SARAH
HOWELL LEADS A SMALL TEAM
SARAH HOWELL LEADS A SMALL
TEAM OF SOCIAL WORKERS AT LAS
OF SOCIAL WORKERS
AT LAS AMERICAS.S
AMERICAS.S SHE SAYS
NEARLY ALL OF THE
SHE SAYS NEARLY ALL OF THE
CHILDREN HERE HAVE EXPERIENCED
SOME FORM OF TRAUMA THAT CAN
AFFECT THEIR DAILY LIVES.
AFFECT THEIR DAILY LIVES. >>
IT'S JUST EVERYTHING FROM "I
>> IT'S JUST EVERYTHING FROM
"I WANT TO HURT MYSELF,"
WANT TO HURT MYSELF," "I
CAN'T GO ON" TO, WELL, "IT'S
"I CAN'T GO ON" TO, WELL, "IT'S
REALLY HARD, I'M SAD BUT I'LL BE
REALLY HARD, I'M SAD
BUT I'LL BE OK." H
OK." H BECAUSE I'M
SEEING KIDS WHO
BECAUSE I'M SEEING KIDS WHO
DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE. K
DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE. K OUR
REFUGEE KIDS MAY NOT HAVE
OUR REFUGEE KIDS MAY NOT
HAVE EVER HAD AN IDENTITY.
EVER HAD AN IDENTITY. OUR
CENTRAL AMERICAN KIDS ARE
OUR CENTRAL AMERICAN KIDS ARE
ANGRY ABOUT THEIR IDENTITY.IC
A LOT OF TIME ABOUT "YOU KNOW
I'M ANGRY THAT I HAD TO LEAVE ME
HOME," "I'M ANGRY THAT MY HOME
HOME," "I'M ANGRY THAT
MY HOME WASN'T SAFE."TH
WASN'T SAFE."TH >>
Reporter: TO MAKE SURE
>> Reporter: TO MAKE SURE
STUDENTS ARE STAYING ON THE
RIGHT TRACK, PRINCIPAL MORENO
OFTEN MEETS WITH PARENTS.
OFTEN MEETS WITH PARENTS. >>
HOW IS YOUR ENGLISH COMING?
>> HOW IS YOUR ENGLISH COMING?
>> Reporter: SHE ENCOURAGES THEE
TO COME TO THE SCHOOL IF THEY
HAVE QUESTIONS, NEED SOCIAL
SERVICES OR EVEN CLOTHING FORTH
SERVICES OR EVEN CLOTHING
FORTH THEIR FAMILIES.
THEIR FAMILIES. AS PART
OF THE EFFORT TO EASE
AS PART OF THE EFFORT TO EASE
THE TRANSITION INTO AMERICAN
CULTURE AND EDUCATION, STUDENTS
HAVE LUNCH AND P.E. WITH
STUDENTS FROM THE SCHOOL NEXT
STUDENTS FROM THE
SCHOOL NEXT DOOR.
DOOR. THAT ALSO
COMPLIES WITH FEDERAL
THAT ALSO COMPLIES WITH FEDERAL
REQUIREMENTS THAT ENGLISH
LEARNERS BE INTEGRATED INTO
TRADITIONAL CLASSES AS QUICKLY
AS POSSIBLE, WHICH IS ONE REASON
MOST STUDENTS STAY AT LAS
AMERICAS FOR ONLY A YEAR.
PRINCIPAL MORENO KNOWS SOME OF
PRINCIPAL MORENO KNOWS SOME
OF HER STUDENTS CAME INTO THE
HER STUDENTS CAME INTO THE
COUNTRY ILLEGALLY, AND ADMITS
THAT IMMIGRATION IS A POLARIZING
THAT IMMIGRATION IS A
POLARIZING ISSUE.LL
ISSUE.LL
BUT IT'S NOT ONE SHE WADES INTO.
SHE SAYS IT'S HER JOB TO FOCUS
ON THE KIDS AND FAMILIES THAT
CONTINUE TO SHOW UP TO HERHO
CONTINUE TO SHOW UP
TO HERHO SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. >> YOU AND
I BOTH KNOW THAT
>> YOU AND I BOTH KNOW THAT
THERE IS A LOT OF FAMILIES AND A
LOT PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY THAT
DEPEND ON THE GOVERNMENT FOR A
LOT OF THINGS AND AREN'T LOOKING
LOT OF THINGS AND AREN'T
LOOKING FOR WAYS OF IMPROVING.
FOR WAYS OF IMPROVING. AND
SO WHY BREED MORE FAMILIES
AND SO WHY BREED MORE FAMILIES
LIKE THAT WHEN WE CAN EDUCATE
FAMILIES THAT WANT TO LEARN
ENGLISH SO THAT THEY CAN BECOME
OUR NEXT ELECTRICIANS OR OUR
OUR NEXT ELECTRICIANS
OR OUR NEXT DOCTORS?
NEXT DOCTORS? >> Reporter:
MORENO IS ALREADY
>> Reporter: MORENO IS ALREADY
PREPARING FOR A NEW INFLUX OF
STUDENTS, AS SOME REFUGEES
FROM SYRIA ARE EXPECTED TO BE
FROM SYRIA ARE EXPECTED TO
BE RESETTLED IN HOUSTON.AR
RESETTLED IN HOUSTON.AR FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M APRIL
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
APRIL BROWN IN HOUSTON.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, IT SEEMS EVERYONE IS
WEIGHING IN ON THE REFUGEE
WEIGHING IN ON THE
REFUGEE DEBATE.
DEBATE. EVEN WILLIE NELSON.
EVEN WILLIE NELSON. LAST
NIGHT BEFORE AN AUDIENCE
LAST NIGHT BEFORE AN AUDIENCE
THAT INCLUDED SEVERAL MEMBERS OF
THAT INCLUDED SEVERAL MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS, THE COUNTRY LEGEND
CONGRESS, THE COUNTRY LEGEND
GAVE HIS TAKE, IN A SONG.
"THERE'S ROOM FOR EVERYONE IN
THE PROMISED LAND," HE SANG.
IT'S A SONG HE CALLED
APPROPRIATE FOR THE CURRENTT
APPROPRIATE FOR THE
CURRENTT TIMES.
TIMES. WE HAVE A CLIP
OF THAT, FROM THE
WE HAVE A CLIP OF THAT, FROM
THE 2015 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
2015 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
GERSHWIN PRIZE FOR POPULAR SONG.
FIND A LINK TO LISTEN, ON OUR
HOME PAGE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.D
I'M GWEN IFILL.GH
I'M GWEN IFILL.GH >>
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. JOIN US
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING, WITH MARKN
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.WS
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOU
MOVING OUR ECONOMY FOR 160
MOVING OUR ECONOMY
FOR 160 YEARS.
YEARS. BNSF, THE
ENGINE THAT CONNECTS
BNSF, THE ENGINE
THAT CONNECTS US.
US. >> THE LEMELSON FOUNDATION.
>> THE LEMELSON FOUNDATION.
COMMITTED TO IMPROVING LIVES
COMMITTED TO IMPROVING
LIVES THROUGH INVENTION.
THROUGH INVENTION. NG
THE U.S. AND DEVELOPI
NG THE U.S. AND
DEVELOPI COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES. ON THE WEB
AT lemelson.org.DAMPE
>> AND WITH THE ONGOING
SUPPORT OF THESE INSTITUTIONS
>> THIS PROGRAM WAS MADE
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION FOR
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION
FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
PUBLIC BROADCASTING. AND BY
CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
STATION FROM VIEWERS
LIKE YOU. THANK YOU.RO